Attacks in Europe and USA
While the attacks in Russia against banks and
payment systems have occurred over the past two
years, the attacks against the retail industry is only
something which started in the second quarter of
2014. With at least three confirmed breaches where
card track data was obtainedand a total of at least 16
breaches at retail organizations, it is also becoming a
serious threat.
Apart from retail organizations it is also known
that a number of media and PR companies have
been breached in 2014. While it is not entirely certain, the type of breaches suggest that the attackers
are looking for inside information, a type of industrial espionage, allowing them to gain an advantage
on the stock market. As there is nothing specifically
missing and the resulting fraud is hard to match
with anything, these incidents typically are never
linked.
|Col1|Retail|Media/PR/Marketing|
|---|---|---|
|USA|12|3|
|Australia|2|0|
|Spain|1|0|
|Italy|1|0|
Table: Overview of compromises per region and
sector.
infection methods
From the retail perspective, the first infections in
2014 were sourced from a botnet which employs a
widely deployed crypto-currency mining malware
based on the Gozi/ISFB (banking) malware family.
Based on our insights we believe during the first
half of 2014 over half a million systems had been
compromised by this malware from over the whole
world, however Russia and a number of post-Soviet
states were clean of infections. To find interesting
infections within this large set of compromised
systems, the malware extracts relevant information
from the systems including Microsoft Windows
organization registration information and network/
Windows domain information.
The Gozi/ISFB based malware was used to drop
additional components on interesting systems,
which included Metasploit/Meterpreter payloads
and Anunak variants. This was one of the main
methods for the group using Anunak to obtain interesting infections in the middle of 2014, sourcing
infections from other botnet operators.More recently other infection methods, including spear phishing
using English language and possibly also usage of
the teams own Andromeda, but also SQL injection
to breach an organization directly from the outside,
has been employed by this team.
pos compromises
The first known attacks with Anunak targeted
a specific brand of POS systems which revolved
around the Epicor/NSB brand. To do this Anunak
has specific code to target POS devices equipped
with this software, which in contrary to the more
common memory scanning track data scrapers, logs
a wealth of information from the payments done by
the cards. The first case this was seen active was in
July 2014, but it might have been earlier as well.
More recent breaches have used a new custom
developed POS malware, which is a more simple
but reliable track data memory scraper. The initial
version from the early fall of 2014 used a simple
blacklist, scraped every process and dumped track
data in plain text. More recent versions scanned
only configuration specified processes and used RC4
to encrypt the extracted track data records on disk.
additional targets
While the retail industry is one of its main targets
due to its payment processing capabilities, other
compromises might occur indirectly, for example to
obtain databases with information or other information that is of value to the organized criminal group.
One of the possibilities is obtaining lists of corporate
email addresses to have a higher chance of interesting infections.
At this moment we have no evidence of successful
compromise or theft of banks and payment systems
outside of Russia, but several infections in the east
of Europe (specifically Ukraine and Latvia) were
active in 2014. These specific infections were related
to infrastructure of organizations based in Russia or
with significant interests in Russia, thus more likely
related to the breaches at the same organization in
Russia.
The majority of infections from Europe were from
dedicated servers used as exit node for VPN services,
13
the systems infected were likely from Eastern European or Russian origin, and possibly test infections
from the attackers. We have no evidence of compromises against banks in Western Europe or United
States, but it should be noted that the attackers
methods could be utilized against banks outside of
Russia as well.
methods of l ateral movement
and persistence
The group uses Metasploit as one of their main
hacking tools, either stand alone or as part of a
framework. The activity includes port scanning and
system reconnaissance, escalating privileges on
systems by using for example the recent CVE-20144113 vulnerability, gathering credentials and hopping on to other systems and networks. Metasploit
is being used to its full potential with scanning,
exploiting, privilege escalation and post exploitation
persistence being achieved with its standard toolset.
On interesting and critical systems typical hacking tools might be found to establish tunnels out
of the network, either tools that are part of the
Metasploit framework such as Meterpreter, but also
other tools to achieve persistence on those systems.
The connect back methods seen are typically SSL
over port 443, but also DNS based methods were
observed. The attackers use BITS to download files,
but also make use of Windows built-in PowerShell to
download tools and execute commands. Finally on
the critical systems freshly crypted and non-detected
versions of Anunak are deployed, typically these are
used in very limited deployments thus their spread
is limited and detection by Anti-Virus is very rare.
Various stealth methods including the aforementioned backconnect SSL and DNS tunneling for
compromise persistence and data exfiltration are
used. The Anunak malware has multiple ways of
connecting to backends, which includes a PHP based
backend reachable over HTTP and HTTPS, and a
Windows server based component using a proprietary protocol.
The use of VNC scanning and password brute
forcing, the adding of additional administrator
accounts, use of RDP Wrapper to allow concurrent
RDP sessions are all methods to gain access and
achieve persistent access to compromised systems
employed by this group. Additionally various ways
of creating incidental and regular screen captures
of the desktop of persons of interest within com
promised organizations were methods employed by
these attackers. This also includes video captures
made by the Anunak malware, allowing attackers to
observe the behavior of users of certain applications.