Defending against Flax Typhoon attacks
Keep public-facing servers up to date to defend against malicious activity. As prime
targets for threat actors, public-facing servers need additional monitoring and
security. User input validation, file integrity monitoring, behavioral monitoring, and
web application firewalls can all help to better secure these servers.
Monitor the Windows registry for unauthorized changes. The Audit Registry feature
allows administrators to generate events when specific registry keys are modified.
Such policies can detect registry changes that undermine the security of a system,
like those made by Flax Typhoon.
Use network monitoring and intrusion detection systems to identify unusual or
unauthorized network traffic. If an organization does not use RDP for a specific
business purpose, any RDP traffic should be considered unauthorized and generate
alerts.
Ensure that Windows systems are kept updated with the latest security patches,
including MS16-075.
Mitigate the risk of compromised valid accounts by enforcing strong multifactor
authentication (MFA) policies using hardware security keys or Microsoft
Authenticator. Passwordless sign-in methods (for example, Windows Hello, FIDO2
security keys, or Microsoft Authenticator), password expiration rules, and
deactivating unused accounts can also help mitigate risk from this access method.
Randomize Local Administrator passwords with a tool like Local Administrator
Password Solution (LAPS) to prevent lateral movement using local accounts with
shared passwords.
Reduce the attack surface. Microsoft customers can turn on the following attack
surface reduction rules to block or audit some observed activity associated with this
threat:
Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem
( lsass.exe ).
Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands. Some
organizations may experience compatibility issues with this rule on certain
server systems but should deploy it to other systems to prevent lateral
movement originating from PsExec and WMI.
Harden the LSASS process by enabling Protective Process Light (PPL) for
LSASS on Windows 11 devices. New, enterprise-joined Windows 11 (22H2 update)
installs have this feature enabled by default. In addition, enable Windows Defender
Credential Guard, which is also turned on by default for organizations using the
Enterprise edition of Windows 11, as well as Memory integrity (also referred to as
hypervisor-protected code integrity or HVCI) for stronger protections on Windows.
Set the WDigest UseLogonCredential registry value via Group Policy Object to
reduce the risk of successful LSASS process memory dumping.
Turn on cloud-delivered protection in Microsoft Defender Antivirus to cover rapidly
evolving attacker tools, techniques, and behaviors such as those exhibited by Flax
Typhoon.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/08/24/flax-typhoon-using-legitimate-software-to-quietly-access-taiwanese-organizations/ 6/12
6/25/24, 2:53 PM Flax Typhoon using legitimate software to quietly access Taiwanese organizations | Microsoft Security Blog
Run endpoint detection and response (EDR) in block mode so that Microsoft
Defender for Endpoint can block malicious artifacts, even when your non-Microsoft
antivirus does not detect the threat, or when Microsoft Defender Antivirus is running
in passive mode. EDR in block mode works behind the scenes to remediate
malicious artifacts that are detected post-compromise.