3. Central Management Solution
Institutions and companies of a certain size often manage multiple systems in their organizations, such as PCs, by
connecting them to a central management solution. This central management solution is mainly responsible for
Network Access Control (NAC); anti-virus management, software and hardware assets control; and patch
management, and it usually provides features such as IT asset management, report generation, software
distribution, and remote control.
The attacker identifies and analyzes the central management solution used by the target institution or company
to find and exploit the vulnerability. The attacks on the central management software can be categorized into two
types: management server account attacks and vulnerability attacks on agents installed in the client.
[Figure 6] Concept diagram of the central management solution
Most central management solutions consist of a management server and a client on which the agent is
installed. The management server sends batch files to the connected systems or applies policies, and
remotely controls the systems. The client processes files and commands sent from the management server.
In the event of an attack using the management server, the attacker steals the targeted administrator account and
distributes malware in the place of a normal file. This is the reason for the emphasis on management of
administrator accounts. Another role of the management server is to receive the security updates for commercial
software from external sources (software providers) and distributes them throughout the organization. However,
if a file from the external update server tampers (e.g., by hacking); an update file containing malware will be
distributed throughout the company or institution via the central management server.
The client agent of the central management solution is responsible for receiving and executing the file transmitted
from the management server. Generally, the agent has a feature to check whether the delivered command or file
is verified. To bypass this process, the attacker pretends to be the management server and sends a command to
the agent.
© AhnLab, Inc. All rights reserved.                                              6
Analysis Report_Andariel Threat Group
The Andariel group is responsible for carrying out many attacks on central management solutions that are widely
used in South Korea. The following are the cases of the group transferring malicious files exploiting the
vulnerabilities of the client agent in three types of central management solution.
The first case is malware that exploits vulnerabilities in central management solution A, which was first discovered
in 2015. When the malware is executed, the executable file, v3pscan.exe, containing malware is transmitted to the
agent of central management solution A through a specified IP address and executed.
[Figure 7] Remote execution command used in the attack on the central management solution A
Attacks on the central management solution B were made between 2015 and 2017. Various types of malware
were used, such as nc.exe, nt.exe, n5lic.exe, nc5rt2.exe, and Bin.exe, to exploit the management system. Also, the
attacker used a method of generating a VBScript file, such as vs1.vbs and winrm.vbs, to download malicious files.
Variants of this malware were discovered between 2015 and 2017, which used the server IP, target system IP,
download address, remote executable path, and other items as arguments to exploit systems and generate
script files that downloaded malware. The generated script downloads a file from the address entered as an
argument and restores 5 bytes.
[Figure 8] Attack tool used in the attack on the central management solution B
The malware that exploited the vulnerabilities in central management solution C was first found in September

This attack performs malicious transferring and executing of files.

© AhnLab, Inc. All rights reserved.                                              7
Analysis Report_Andariel Threat Group
[Figure 9] Attack tool used in the attack on the central management solution C