Executive Summary
Most targeted attacks against organizations originate as spear-phish campaigns or watering hole style
web driveby attacks. Within the last six months, Invincea has discovered and stopped targeted
malvertizing attacks against specific companies -- particularly those in the Defense Industrial Base. The
combination of traditional cyber crime methods (malvertising) with targeted attacks against Defense
industrials for theft of IP represents another development in the on-going blending of techniques from
cyber crime and advanced threat actors with nation state agendas. We are tracking an on-going campaign
against US Defense companies under the code name Operation DeathClick .
Traditional malvertizing has been an effective but indiscriminate method cyber crime gangs use to
compromise endpoints to perpetrate ad fraud, identity fraud, and banking credential theft. In this new
targeted variation of malvertizing, the perpetrators are attacking specific organizations by leveraging real
time ad bidding networks and micro-targeting techniques developed over the last decade in online
advertising. The objective of these micro-targeted attacks against the Defense sector is likely theft of
Intellectual Property more than ad fraud and indicates motive and sophistication characteristic of
advanced threat actors. Since these attacks were blocked by Invincea prior to compromise of the machine
or network, we cannot confirm the specific IP the perpetrators are after – only the Tactics, Techniques,
and Protocols (TTPs) used which we describe herein, similar to methods used to provide backdoor access
and command and control over compromised networks.
While we discovered these attacks across multiple Defense companies, we expect it will not be long, if
not already, before other highly targeted segments including Federal, Financial Services, Manufacturing,
and HealthCare are victimized with the same micro-targeted malvertising. The campaign described here
does not represent a single flaw, 0-day, or unpatched bug, but rather a significant development in the
adversary’s capabilities and strategy to leverage legitimate online advertising platforms on well-known ad
supported websites via a technique called Real-Time Ad Bidding. In other words, this problem will not be
patched on Tuesday.
UPDATE: We have updated this document to include a new section on a campaign of distributing
CryptoWall ransomware via malvertising. While the attack vector is the same, we believe this to be
motivated by cybercrime rather than theft of IP from Defense companies.
Invincea, Inc. Release Date: 10.27.2014
Invincea White Paper 3