ATTACK OVERVIEW
At the time of writing, we have little information on how
exactly victims are receiving the BlackEnergy malware
being pushed by the Quedagh gang. An educated guess
is that they are receiving the malware via targeted emails
containing malicious attachments. Meanwhile, the
following infection and technical details are based on
samples gathered after searching through F-Secure Labs’
collection of all BlackEnergy samples and identifying
those with Quedagh characteristics.
target Ukrainian government institutions. Though it may
be unrelated, it is interesting to note that this change
conveniently coincides with the on-going crisis in that
country. Related or not, one thing is certain: the actor(s)
using these customized BlackEnergy malware are intent
on stealing information from the targets. The use of this
crimeware in what constitutes as an advance persistent
threat (APT) attack is interesting. In ‘black operations’
(black ops), an important criteria is that the attack should
not be attributable - and what provides better plausible
deniability than crimeware known to be used by multiple
parties?
In this paper we focus only on BlackEnergy samples
known to be used specifically by the actors we identify
as Quedagh, who seem to have a particular interest in
political targets. Special focus will be on the samples
that were used in targeted attacks against Ukrainian
government organizations earlier this year.
The BlackEnergy toolkit comes with a builder application
which is used to generate the clients that the attacker(s)
use to infect victim machines. The toolkit also comes
with server-side scripts, which the attackers set up in
the command and control (C&C) server. The scripts also
provide an interface where an attacker can control his
bots. The simplicity and convenience provided by the
toolkit means that anyone who has access to the kit can
build his own botnet without any skills required.
Figure 1: BlackEnergy Builder from 2007
The convergence of crimeware and APT attacks BLACKENERGY & QUEDAGH