Information theft routines
FastPOS has three separate threads, pertaining to its notable capabilities:


Keylogger


Main RAM scraper process


(Note: The latest file set avoids several process names: Firefox.exe, Chrome.exe,
Svchost.exe, Dwm.exe, and Skype.exe)
Self-updating mechanism
The first two threads, the keylogger and the main RAM scraper process, are for information theft
purposes. We will tackle the third thread in the data exfiltration phase.
In the first thread, FastPOS captures keystrokes and sends back the entire string to the C&C
server once the return key is pressed. Keyloggers often go together with PoS threats as the
former enable the attackers to do reconnaissance and obtain other information aside from the
stolen data from the credit card scrape. Stolen information from keyloggers may also vary
between the products or services purchased and the card security code (unique card code/card
identification number) being asked in some establishments.
FastPOS implements a simple key-logging functionality similar to another PoS threat,
NewPosThings, in that keylogged data are held in memory with no file written in disk. As such,
this poses challenges to detection and removal of the malware from PoS systems. Although,
such routine may result to some level of network noise, there are relatively few instances of the
return key being used. This is also seen when you compare the normal operations of PoS
terminal to that of a regular workstation.
The main RAM scraping process handled by the second thread and a custom algorithm is
implemented in the following flow:

Check field separator ('=' or 'D')
Check first digit of the primary account number (aka, primary account number or

PAN) (3,4,5,6)
3. Check expiry year (not later than 2040)
4. Check expiry month (no value above 12)
5. Service code should be 201 or 101 (magnetic stripe card/IC card, PIN not required)
6. Must pass Luhn validation
7. Data after service code should be digits from 0-9 up to 16 characters, and ends with
'?'
3
Trend Micro | FastPOS: Quick and Easy Credit Card Theft
This process also checks if the number of digits is 16 numbers. The PAN checking indicates
that it allows cards from major players like American Express, Discover, JCB, MasterCard, and
VISA among others. The steps taken by this RAM scraper is quite common, except to one
procedure where it checks the service code. Based on our analysis of one particular sample
(sha1: 01cdb9f7935434df31196660a7542e0b46bcf480), FastPOS looks for a specific service
code 201 or 101, namely:
Position 1, value 1: International interchange OK
Position 1, value 2: International interchange, use IC (chip) where feasible


Position 2, value 0: Normal


Position 3, value 1: No Restrictions


Figure 3: Service code checking
This filtering ensures that the credit card data that it searches for are international cards
(position 1), unrestricted for authorization (position 2), and does not require a pin (position 3). A
full list of possible service code combinations can be read here.