Government Recruitment from Hacker Groups
Government efforts to recruit from among the Chinese hacker community and
evidence of consulting relationships between known hackers and security services
indicates some government willingness to draw from this pool of expertise. It does not
imply that authorities have established many such relationships or intends to enlist
whole groups for large attacks on US systems.
Between July 2007 and November 2008, an individual using the screen name
“City_93” posted job vacancy announcements for the Ministry of Public
Security’s First Research Institute (posting a Web address www.fri.com.cn) on
the discussion board for EvilOctal.com and XFocus.net, two of the largest and
in the case of XFocus, most established hacker forums in China.
“City_93” eventually posted 10 vacancy notices on Evil Octal between 2007
and 2008 and on both sites engaged in lengthy discussion threads on the
application procedures and nature of the job with interested users. The job
postings were for entry level programmers with experience in the development
and implementation of network security system projects.
The MPS First Research Bureau provides a variety of science and technology
research and development to operational elements of the MPS. The Institute
has an information security research group according to its Website.
45
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Figure 4: Job posting on hacker Website EvilOctal by a Ministry of Public Security 1 [st] Research
Institute representative looking for applicants with information security and programming
backgrounds. The post was made by a user with the screen name “City_93” who self-identified as
a MPS employee and used an MPS email for follow up contact.
The founding member of the influential Chinese hacker group Javaphile has a
formal consulting relationship with the Shanghai Public Security Bureau and
researcher credentials at the information security engineering institute of one
of China’s leading universities, according to an analysis of academic
publications, media reporting, and research done by an independent IW
analyst. Javaphile has an established history as a hacktivist group, leading attacks
on the White House and other networks during the hacker wars in 2001-2002 and is
still considered an active and influential group.
The co-founder of Javaphile, Peng Yinan, using the screen name
Coolswallow, created Javaphile while a student at Shanghai Jiaotong
University’s School of Information Security Engineering in 2000 according to
posts he made in 2003 on a Shanghai Jiaotong student online forum that has
since been removed. [86] The group initially functioned solely as a java language
user group until the EP-3 incident catalyzed the members to convert Javaphile
into a hacker group. The members focused on developing tools, sharing
86 For the full analysis of the linkage between Coolswallow, Ericool, and Peng Yinan, see Scott
Henderson’s analysis and research posted on his blog, The Dark Visitor, available at:
http://www.thedarkvisitor.com/2007/12/javaphile-buddhism-andthe-public-security-bureau/.
46
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
techniques and carrying out attacks on US Websites, according to postings the
group made on a student online forum. [87]
Independent research by a US IW specialist, Scott Henderson, linked Peng to
two screen names, CoolSwallow and Ericool, that he used regularly either on
his Javaphile Website or to publish essays on Buddhism on a separate
Website devoted to the subject where he was a member.
Henderson later identified Peng’s Shanghai Public Security Bureau consultant
credentials from a Shanghai Jiaotong University student newspaper story
about a lecture that Peng, an alumni of the Information Security Engineering
Institute, had given to students there called “Hacker in a Nutshell.” These
accounts and publicity posters also described Peng as an “experienced
hacker” (see Figure 5). [88]
Following this exposure on Henderson’s blog, the Coolswallow and Buddhist
society sites were taken down and little was heard in online hacker forums
from Coolswallow or Ericool for over a year.
Figure 5: Poster advertising Javaphile member and Public Security Bureau
consultant, Peng Yinan’s 2007 lecture, “Hacker in a Nutshell” at Shanghai Jiaotong
87 Scott Henderson, The Dark Visitor, April 2007, p. 36
88 Scott Henderson, The Dark Visitor blog. The Shanghai newspaper article is available at:
http://jd.sjtu.edu.cn/BKPG/xsyd/xywh/2007-11-05/1194245625d7507.html
47
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
University. His name is circled and his hacking and PSB credentials are underlined
above. [89]
Peng later published two articles in 2008 on computer network exploitation
techniques under his own name and listed as an affiliated researcher at
Shanghai Jiaotong University’s Information Security Engineering Institute. [90]
The Institute is currently headed by Peng Dequan, a former Director of the
Science and Technology Commission of the Ministry of State Security (MSS),
China’s primary foreign intelligence service. [91]
The PLA in 2005 reportedly held a series of regional or provincial hacker
competitions to identify talented civilians who could support military CNO
requirements, according to an uncorroborated Taiwan media source referencing an
article from a Sichuan university student newspaper.
Chinese hacker, Withered Rose (aka Tan Duilin), the former leader of the
prominent NCPH hacker group, allegedly won the competition in Sichuan, a
story which has been repeated often in Western media reporting but is difficult
to verify.
The accounts claim that representatives from the Sichuan Military Command
Communication Department apparently contacted Tan in 2005 directly and told
him to participate in the network attack and defense training event organized
by the provincial military command, in preparation for the coming Chengdu
Military Command Network Attack and Defense Competition later that year,
according to an interview conducted with him by the Sichuan University of
Science and Technology student newspaper. [92] If true, the story implies that
the PLA was engaged in “talent scouting” within the hacker community and
organizing formal events such as this contest to aid the effort.
89 See: http://jd.sjtu.edu.cn/BKPG/xsyd/xywh/2007-11-05/1194245625d7507.html
90 The articles entitled “An Analysis of Blind SQL Injection Techniques” and “Feed Injection
and Defenses in Web 2.0” published in the journal Information Security and Communication
Security identified Peng and his co-authors (also former Javaphile members) as researchers
at Shanghai Jiaotong University’s Information Security Engineering Institute. Citation drawn
from the Wanfang database, available at:
http://d.wanfangdata.com.cn/Periodical_xxaqytxbm200805032.aspx
91 “Computer Security Urged to Be Tightened,” PLA Daily Online, English edition, August 14,
2000; available at
http://english.peoplesdaily.com.cn/english/200008/14/eng200008_48117.html | OSC,
CPP20060908425001001, “Wuhan University State Key Laboratory of Software Engineering,”
28 August 2006.
92 OSC, CPP20071115310002, “Tzu-Yu Shih-Pao: China Employs 30,000 Internet Soldiers,”
10 November 2007| Simon Elegant, “Enemies at the Firewall,” Time Magazine, December 6,
2007; available at: http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1692063,00.html
48
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Interestingly, Tan was recently arrested on hacking charges when he attacked
the websites of rival hacker groups.