Operation Blockbuster: Remote Administration Tools and Content Staging Malware Report 69
After the RAT channel processes the requested command, SJM1 terminates the connection between the client node and
itself. Therefore, each time an attacker wishes to issue a command against a SJM1 node, the attacker much reconnect to
the node.
The inclusion of the RAT channel is somewhat unusual for several reasons. First, the channel is unauthenticated while,
as presented in the sync channel discussion, there is a heavy use of asymmetric encryption to ensure command files are
legitimate and only producible by the Lazarus Group attackers. Secondly, the construction of the RAT channel appears
almost as if it were an afterthought of the developer(s) given that it requires constant reconnections to a node to issue
multiple commands. Lastly, the RAT channel is single node focused, while the rest of the functionality of SJM1 is geared
toward a hive or collective.
17.1.3 Sync Channel
The crawler channel and sync channel share the same handler function with the crawler channel being the basis for the
sync channel’s operations. More to the point, the entirety of the crawler channel’s events occurs as a precursor to the sync
channel specific operations. Therefore, immediately following the transfer of the known nodes list to the client from the
server and the updating of the appropriate NodeInfo entries in the known nodes and seed nodes lists, the sync channel
adds to or updates the client to the client nodes list.
The client sends two datagrams containing information about the client node to the server. The first datagram contains a
ClientInfo data structure (see Table 17-8) describing aspects of the client node related to its basic properties such as IP
address and listening port as well as its type. The second datagram contains a ClientInfoEx data structure (see Table
17-9) that describes hardware and operating system level aspects of the node such as the OS version information, CPU
details, and if particular ports of interest are open, among other details. If the size of the two datagram payloads matches
their respective data structure sizes, the data structures are joined into a single data structure and stored within the list of
client nodes . If, however, the size of the ClientInfo data structure is incorrect, the ClientInfoEx transfer is aborted
by the server node.
The client node and the server node now begin the process of the client node synchronizing its command files. Command
files are specifically formatted data files that SJM1 uses to transfer commands from node to node. The structure of a
command file (Table 17-5) consists of a RSA encrypted header, the command’s data and its associated header in a cleartext
header, and an optional encrypted data blob containing the information necessary to verify the integrity of the entire
command file.
|OFFSET|SIZE|FIELD DESCRIPTION|
|---|---|---|
|0|128 Bytes|Encrypted Command File Header (see Table 17-6)|
|128|Variable but at least 4 Bytes (m)|Data header (see Table 17-7)|
|m+4|4 Bytes (DWORD)|Size of data field|
|m+132|Variable (n)|Data|
|m+n+132|128 Bytes|(Optional) encrypted verification data|
Table 17-5: SierraJuliett-MikeOne’s Command File Structure
The first 128 bytes of a command file are encrypted using a private RSA key that presumably only belongs to the Lazarus
Group, as the key has not been found disclosed publicly. Underneath the RSA encryption lies the command file header
(see Table 17-6) which species the type of command, an identifier for the command, the data/parameters of the command
and the size of that data along with its header, and, optionally, the necessary information to verify the integrity of the
entire command file along with the command’s data and the data’s associated header. The command ID field (offset 4)
is particularly important as it allows SJM1 nodes to quickly determine if a particular command file has previously been
executed based on a running counter of the last command ID executed (offset 32 of the node’s configuration data structure).