Targeted Campaign against HRDs demanding the release of the Bhima Koregaon 11
The spyware campaign revealed in this blog targeted lawyers and activists Nihalsing B
Rathod, Degree Prasad Chouhan, Yug Mohit Choudhary, and Ragini Ahuja;
academics Partho Sarothi Ray and PK Vijayan, a journalist who prefers to stay
anonymous , and a human rights collective – Jagdalpur Legal Aid Group (JAGLAG),
received malicious e-mails on the group’s official ID, which is accessed by all of its
members, including lawyer Shalini Gera . Another JAGLAG member, Isha
Khandelwal also received malicious emails on her personal account. All the people
mentioned consented to be named in this blog.
Nihalsing B Rathod is a human rights lawyer based in Maharashtra. He has
worked closely with the imprisoned lawyer Surendra Gadling as a junior lawyer.
Crucially, he is one of the leading lawyers representing one of the 11 imprisoned
HRDs in their legal proceedings.
Isha Khandelwal is a lawyer associated with JAGLAG, a Chattisgarh-based
lawyers collective which provides legal aid to the Adivasi/indigenous and other
marginalised communities. The group’s primary email, which was targeted, is also
accessed by lawyer Shalini Gera. They are also involved in the legal defense of the
HRDs in the same case.
Degree Prasad Chouhan is a Dalit HRD who has worked closely with Sudha
Bharadwaj in the past. Degree has been documenting and campaigning against land
dispossession and forced evictions of indigenous communities in India, which have
been carried out by coal companies and governments.
Partho Sarothi Ray is a Kolkata-based activist and academic, who has been a
vocal critic of rights violations in the country. He has also been a member of a
collective called Persecuted Prisoners’ Solidarity Committee, and has spoken out
openly against the imprisonment of these 11 activists.
Yug Mohit Chaudhry and Ragini Ahuja are criminal lawyers based in Mumbai.
Their main area of work include litigating death penalty and civil liberties cases.
They represent two of the 11 imprisoned activists in the legal proceedings.
https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/research/2020/06/india-human-rights-defenders-targeted-by-a-coordinated-spyware-operation/ 3/16
6/16/2020 India: Human Rights Defenders Targeted by a Coordinated Spyware Operation | Amnesty International
A journalist based in Maharashtra, who wishes to remain anonymous was also
targeted. The journalist has been closely reporting on the Bhima Koregaon case.
Finally, PK Vijayan is a Delhi-based academic. He is not directly linked to the
campaign for the release of the 11 HRDs, but is known to have campaigned for the
release of GN Saibaba, a disabled academic who remains imprisoned in
Maharashtra. Saibaba has been convicted under the draconian UAPA.
While the spyware campaign detailed in this blog has no known links to NSO Group,
three of the nine HRDs targeted - Shalini Gera (from JAGLAG), Nihal Singh Rathod, and
Degree Prasad Chouhan- were targeted using NSO Group’s surveillance tools. Anand
Teltumbde, who is one of the 11 charged and imprisoned in the Bhima Koregaon incident,
was also targeted using NSO Group’s tools. That some of these individuals were targeted
multiple times shows that there is a disturbing pattern of spyware attacks against HRDs
involved in the Bhima Koregaon case.