China’s Cyber Background and Related Challenges 1.1.
Free Information and Foreign Technologies Seen as Threats
As with most states, China is heavily dependent on technology, making the government highly concerned about
developments regarding the internet and the information flow that it generates. The Chinese see uncontrolled
information as a threat to the regime, paying great efforts to obtain the economic gains that the internet provides,
but simultaneously maintaining political control. [7] It is believed that, for the Chinese, the whole concept of the
internet is built around controlling information through real-time censorship, constituting a completely different
view from that in the West. [8] Indeed, ever since the internet became a publicly available communication platform in
China, the question was not whether to control it, but rather how to control it. [9] The most explicit example of such
regulatory measures is of course the Great Firewall of China, which by monitoring all traffic in Chinese cyberspace
enables the authorities to deny access to a variety of selected websites and disconnect all Chinese networks from
the global internet network.
Other than being afraid of the growth of internal opposition through information, the government is also very
sensitive about foreign information systems. Despite local technology and telecom companies’ efforts to supply high
quality products for domestic use, a large part of technology connected to Chinese networks still originates from the
West. Chinese officials are convinced that these systems are equipped with Trojan horses and loopholes to steal
China’s national secrets and prevent its further economic upsurge. [10] To counter these fears, the government has
4 Hannas, William C., James C. Mulvenon, and Anna B. Puglisi . Chinese Industrial Espionage: Technology Acquisition and Military
Modernization . Routledge, 2013.
5 Stark, Jill. ‘US Follows Australia in Naming Huawei as a Possible Security Threat.’ The Sydney Morning Herald . 9 Oct. 2012.
Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. http://www.smh.com.au/it-pro/security-it/us-follows-australia-in-naming-huawei-as-a-possiblesecurity-threat-20121007-277ad.html.
6 The US National Security Agency (NSA) has itself hacked into computers belonging to Huawei and China Telecom, a fact that
became public with the Snowden leaked documents evidencing the American worldwide online spying. See more at Sanger,
David E., and Nicole Perlroth. ‘N.S.A. Breached Chinese Servers Seen as Security Threat.’ The New York Times . 22 Mar. 2014.
Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/23/world/asia/nsa-breached-chinese-servers-seen-as-spyperil.html?_r=0.
7 Grauman, Brigid. Cyber-security: The Vexed Question of Global Rules . Report by Security & Defence Agenda, 2012, p. 55.
8 David Bandurski, cited in Lococo, Edmond, and Keith Zhai. ‘China Seeks Global Internet Influence at CEO Forum on Canal
Bank.’ Bloomberg Technology . 18 Nov. 2014. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-1118/china-seeks-global-internet-influence-at-ceo-forum-on-canal-bank.
9 Creemers, Rogier. ‘Cyber-Leninism: History, Political Culture and the Internet in China.’ (2015): p.10. Draft available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2589884.
10 Ernst, Dieter. Indigenous Innovation and Globalization – the Challenge for China’s Standardization Strategy . Report by the
East-West Center, 2010, p. 33.
http://www.eastwestcenter.org/fileadmin/stored/pics/Ernst%20EWC%20NBR%20Report%20%2011%2015%2010.pdf.
6
imposed heavy controls over the information security industry, deterring foreign investors, especially the Americans,
from seeking business opportunities in China. Yet, demonstrating how far the Chinese still are from the desired
technological independence, Beijing was not particularly pleased when in early 2014, Microsoft decided to stop
customer support for Windows XP, the operating system used extensively in Chinese government computers. 1.2.
Chinese Views on Controlling Cyberspace
Public discussion about the nature and future of cyberspace was brought to the international level only very
recently. [11] In 2013, the United Nations Group of Governmental Experts, including the representative from China,
concluded that the UN Charter and international law are fully applicable to state behaviour in cyberspace, a position
which has also been taken by NATO countries. [12] However, this position impliedly assumes the use of already existing
institutional framework, which, facilitated by ICANN, is more multi-stakeholder than intergovernmental. The latter
would better allow each government to regulate the internet itself, the main premise of China’s strong belief in so
called ‘cyber sovereignty’.
China has introduced its alternative position through the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in the UN
General Assembly, together with Russia and several Central Asian countries, first in 2011, with a revised version in
January 2015. [13] A common line between the SCO countries is a belief in the primacy of the nation state, which should
be carried over into cyberspace. [14] According to a report by the US-China Security Review Commission, this allows
the Chinese to dwell on two corollaries. Firstly, the users of cyberspace, both domestic and foreign citizens within a
state’s territory, should be controlled by the host state, a clear contradiction of the Western position which supports
a liberal cyberspace respecting human rights. [15] In China’s political culture, maintaining social order is unquestionably
more important than individual privacy. [16] Secondly, China is particularly sensitive in exercising its right to sovereignty
in cyberspace and does not want it to be interfered with by any other state or international organisation. [17] Therefore,
somewhat contradictory to its position regarding the UN report, China does not see international law as the main
regulator of cyberspace, but prefers each state setting its own rules. [18] China has also criticised the Tallinn Manual as
an effort to manipulate cyberspace through law. [19]
Another concern characterising China’s attitude towards general governance of cyberspace is its antipathy to the
US. As many official statements by the Chinese press, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and academics have shown,
China is concerned about the US using its status and influence as the world’s leading technology power to establish
international rules and norms favourable to the US. Thus, China often justifies its actions in cyberspace as a response
to hostile developments by the US military. [20] A point further strengthening this understanding is the fact that ICANN
11 When talking about rules in the internet, it is necessary to distinguish between two separate concepts. First, ‘internet
governance’ is a term for norms, rules and procedures that shape the use of the internet in general, and is facilitated by the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Different from ‘Internet governance’ is the framework of how a
sovereign state behaves in cyberspace.
12 Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of
International Security . Report of the United Nations General Assembly, 2013.
http://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/68/98, and North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Cyber Defence
Pledge . 8 July 2016. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. http://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official_texts_133177.htm.
13 International Code of Conduct for Information Security . Report of the United Nations General Assembly, 2015.
https://ccdcoe.org/sites/default/files/documents/UN-150113-CodeOfConduct.pdf.
14 Grauman, 2012, p. 56.
15 Hsu, Kimberly, and Craig Murray. China and International Law in Cyberspace . Report by the U.S.-China Economic and Security
Review Commission, 2014, p. 2.
16 Grauman, 2012, p. 56.
17 Hsu and Murray, 2014, p. 2. For an example of the Chinese position on these issues, see ‘China’s Perspective on Building a
Peaceful, Secure, Open and Cooperative Cyberspace.’ UNIDIR Conference. 10 Feb. 2014. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016.
http://www.unidir.ch/files/conferences/pdfs/a-cyber-code-of-conduct-the-best-vehicle-for-progress-en-1-963.pdf.
18 Segal, Adam. ‘The Deepening Divide in U.S.-China Cyber Relations.’ The National Interest . 29 Oct. 2014. Accessed 18 Aug.
2016. http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-buzz/the-deepening-divide-us-china-cyber-relations-11568.
19 The Tallinn Manual disagrees with any call for new regulations to govern cyberspace.
20 Hsu and Murray, 2014, p. 1.
7
is located in Los Angeles and is under US jurisdiction, even though it is independent of the US government. Moreover,
as the US is a founding member of the majority of the world’s international institutions, China believes it to have
exceptional control over cyberspace and its governing principles. For example, during the Budapest Conference on
Cyberspace in 2012, the official statement of the Chinese representative included points that criticised the US for
militarising cyberspace and unfairly allocating cyber resources among only developed states to maintain its control. [21]
This is why several Chinese experts believe China has a key role in promoting a new, ‘common and inclusive global
internet governance’ [22] model that redistributes digital resources and governance rights more equitably. Admittedly,
such a model would probably lack legitimacy in the eyes of a large part of the international community. [23] 1.3.
China vs. the West and the United States
The different understandings of internet governance can be seen as part of the general existential competition
between China and the West, which often asks whether China will continue growing as the peaceful lion as it claims,
or whether conflict with the liberal democratic ideologies is bound to occur. As the US undeniably has the greatest
economic and military capabilities among the West, it has taken the lead in containing China’s growth. Whereas
physical confrontation has so far been avoided, the situation is certainly fiercer in cyberspace, which both the US
Department of Defense (DoD) and the PLA have begun to view as a new domain of conflict, seeing cyber espionage
and malicious activities from both parties, who refuse to admit their state-level involvement and rather blame their
opponent. [24] China considers itself equal with the US when it comes to comparing the two countries’ size, power and
influence in the online field, which creates tensions over who should dominate the digital world. [25] Understandably,
such tensions frustrate cooperative interaction not only in the cyber domain, but also in the economic and political
fields.
After the US indicted five PLA officers for stealing data from American corporations in May 2014, [26] many saw the
cyber-agreement between President Xi and President Obama in September 2015 as a positive development. Both
Presidents pledged not to knowingly conduct or support cyber theft, including that of intellectual property, trade
secrets, or confidential business information in general. [27] Some cyber security firms have indeed noted a reduced
number of attacks against American businesses, but this might be due to improved tactics making the attackers
harder to detect, or simply a turn to new, uninformed targets in other countries, and not because of any deep respect
for the agreement. [28] FireEye’s recent report states that the China-based units’ operations against US companies saw
a decline in frequency a year before the Xi-Obama agreement and have since become more focused and calculated
21 Hurwitz, Roger. ‘A Scene from the Road to Cyber Governance: The Budapest Cyberspace Conference.’ MUNK School of Global
Affairs . 26 Feb. 2013. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. http://www.cyberdialogue.ca/2013/02/a-scene-from-the-road-to-cybergovernance-the-budapest-cyberspace-conference/.
22 Jiang, Li, Zhang Xiaolan, and Yu Feibao. ‘Deadlock in International Cooperation Regarding Cyber Security and Its
Solutions.’ Xiandai Guoji Guanxi - Contemporary International Relations 9 (2013), cited in Liffran, Camille. ‘Chinese Perspectives
on Cyber Security and International Relations.’ China's Expanding Cyberspace (2014): pp. 5-7. http://www.ecfr.eu/page//ChinaAnalysisEng_June2014.pdf.
23 The subject of a broader-based internet governance model was brought up at the World Conference on International
Telecommunications in 2012. The outcome was a clear split between nations favouring the introduction of a multilateral
governance model (most of the so-called BRICS countries, with the exception of India, and developing countries) and those
opposed to it, including the USA, EU member states, Australia and Japan.
24 Lindsay, Jon. China and Cybersecurity: Political, Economic, and Strategic Dimensions . Report by the University of California
Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, 2012, p. 1. https://www.usnwc.edu/Academics/Faculty/DerekReveron/Documents/China-and-Cybersecurity-Workshop-Report-final.aspx.
25 Cyrus Mewawalla, cited in Lococo and Zhai, 2014.
26 This was an act of seemingly no great significance, but at the time conveyed a highly symbolic meaning about the countries’
bilateral relations in the cyber field in general. See more at Tiezzi, Shannon. ‘US Indicts 5 PLA Officers For Hacking, Economic
Espionage.’ The Diplomat . 20 May 2014. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. http://thediplomat.com/2014/05/us-indicts-5-pla-officersfor-hacking-economic-espionage/.
27 ‘The Obama-Xi Cyber Mirage.’ The Wall Street Journal . 27 Sept. 2015. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016.
http://www.wsj.com/articles/the-obama-xi-cyber-mirage-1443387248.
28 Harold, Scott Warren. ‘The U.S.-China Cyber Agreement: A Good First Step.’ RAND Corporation . July 2016. Accessed 19 Aug.
2016. http://www.rand.org/blog/2016/08/the-us-china-cyber-agreement-a-good-first-step.html.
8
and have maintained their level of success. The report attributes such changes to military and political changes
within China, the frequent exposure of Chinese hackers, as well as the pressure and threat of sanctions from the
US. [29] Nevertheless, the overall situation has remained fairly static and therefore the Xi-Obama agreement should
not be seen as a turning point.
It is essential to note that the foundation of such behaviour, as well as Chinese thinking on asymmetric warfare in
general and particularly on cyber-war, was laid down in Unrestricted Warfare – a book written by two PLA colonels
Qiao Liang and Wang Xiangsui in 1999 to provide a strategy of how China as a weaker country could defeat a
technologically superior foe outside the scope of using hard military power. Part of the American media irresponsibly
depicted the book a grand strategy to destroy the US due to its precise scrutiny of the American military. Indeed,
the colonels identified the US military’s main weakness as its dependence on ICT-networked systems through which
the Chinese could obtain an asymmetric advantage. [30] According to SIPRI’s database, at the time of the book’s
publication, the difference in the two countries’ military expenditure was about 15-fold. Even though the gap has
closed significantly, the US defence budget is still around three times that of China. [31] Therefore, if the front door
remains closed, the smart player will try to sneak in through the back door or a window. That is exactly what the
Chinese strategy is about – knowing that even with wholesale modernisation, it will not be the equal of the US
military for decades, and so China is ready to win any confrontation without physical battles by using efficient and
overwhelming cyber-attacks. [32]
However, even though the book has predominantly been characterised as a plan to defeat the US, it really should
be perceived as an opportunity to understand China’s different operational thinking on the power struggle in
general. This is something that needs to be noticed and learned not only by the US, but also by other Western powers
if they want to be on par with China in the cyber race. Colonels Qiao and Wang noted that it is vital to recognise that
the battlefields in future wars will be traditionally non-war spheres like cyberspace, which strongly affect national
security. [33] 1.4.
Understanding the Chinese Cyber Definitions
In looking into Chinese cyber developments, one should also be aware of their dissimilar terminology for cyber as
compared to the North-Atlantic area. [34] Efforts have been made to reconcile the mismatches, but these continue to
be met by a remarkable lack of enthusiasm. What can be done for the purpose of this research is to explain the most
significant differences.
To begin with, the Chinese do not use the word cyber as extensively as the West. They perceive everything related
to cyber developments as part of a broader transformation from an industrial society to an information society,
referring to the process as informationisation or informatisation (the latter is normally used in translations and has
29 Red Line Drawn: China Recalculates Its Use of Cyber Espionage . Report by FireEye, 2016, pp. 12, 15.
https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/current-threats/pdfs/rpt-china-espionage.pdf.
30 Qiao, Liang, and Wang Xiangsui. Unrestricted Warfare . PLA Literature and Arts House, 1999. Unofficial translation of the book
is available at Cryptome’s website at: http://www.cryptome.org/cuw.htm.
31 ‘SIPRI Military Expenditure Database.’ SIPRI . 2016. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016.
http://www.sipri.org/research/armaments/milex/milex_database.
32 Clarke and Knake, 2010, p. 53.
33 Qiao and Wang, 1999, pp. 144-145, cited in Thomas, Timothy L. The Dragon's Quantum Leap . Foreign Military Studies Office,
2009, p. 27.
34 As Keir Giles and William Hagestad point out in their comprehensive paper on English, Chinese and Russian mismatching
cyber definitions, the common disparities need to be removed to achieve a mutual understanding on governing cyberspace. It
is easier to accept the current situation, but a better solution may exist in composing an international cyber lexicon that
addresses all the relevant terms. This, however, will be a tremendous challenge due to the opposition of China and other
alternative players like Russia, who find it more appealing to seek cooperation among themselves and other like-minded
countries instead of engaging into a constructive dialogue with the US-led English-speaking countries. See more at: Giles, Keir,
and William Hagestad II. Divided by a Common Language: Cyber Definitions in Chinese, Russian and English . Proceedings of 5th
International Conference on Cyber Conflict, Tallinn. 2013. NATO CCDCOE Publications .
https://ccdcoe.org/publications/2013proceedings/d3r1s1_giles.pdf.
9
wider use) . [35] Similarly, while the West classifies cyberspace as the global domain covering the use of electronics,
interdependent networks of information technology infrastructure including the internet, and other
telecommunication networks and data, [36] the Chinese term closest to what would translate as cyberspace merely
entails the necessary components of a connected device and actions related to using it. [37] For the Chinese, cyberspace
is thus only a subset of information space – the landscape for the largest scale communication to the world’s
population, which includes human information processing and cognitive space. [38]
It is also important to distinguish between cyber security and information security . The West, including the NATO
allies, sees cyber security as the security of computer and information systems as physical and logical entities, and
information assurance or information security as referring to security of the content. The Chinese, however, view
both the information systems and the content of information as integral and connected parts of information
security . [39] This holistic understanding thus extends the use of the term from purely ICT-related issues to mental
aspects and explains why the Chinese government’s approach to information security has been control-seeking and
restrictive. Likewise, the Chinese have adopted information warfare as a distinct, yet integrated and discrete
discipline, which is incompatible with the Western view, which has recently been dividing the concept into smaller
and separate disciplines, such as psychological operations and strategic communications. The Chinese use c yber
warfare only when describing Western countries and their cyber operations. [40]
It would be a major challenge to have each player adopt a single lexicon, but as long as one understands what is
behind the varying definitions, it will become easier to evaluate cyber relationships between China and the West. In
this paper, unless specifically referring to a Chinese initiative or particular concept, cyber and its derivations should
be read in the conventional Western understanding. However, dissimilar terminology is certainly not the hardest of
the obstacles on the way to elaborating sophisticated cyber cooperation between China and the West. China’s
notion of sovereignty and independence has restrained it from considering Western points of view and international
law’s efficiency in cyberspace. Reluctant to adopt the US-led positions, the Chinese prefer to control cyberspace
through its government and military, as opposed to the West which prefers a liberal environment, giving space to
individuals and private corporations. Having analysed China’s previous behaviour and firmly held attitudes, it seems
unlikely that its stance will see a significant change any time soon. Therefore, instead of fighting the red dragon in
the dark and without much success, it might be more useful to get to know her first. However, it is a large and
complicated task due to continuing uncertainties that are not only a problem for the outsiders, but also for the
Chinese themselves. 2.