Southeast Asia and Korean Peninsula
The ScarCruft group is a geo-political motivated APT group that usually attacks
government entities, diplomats and individuals associated with North Korean affairs.
Following our last report about this group, we had not seen its activities for almost a year.
However, we observed that ScarCruft compromised a North Korea-related news media
website in January, beginning a campaign that was active until March. The attackers
utilized the same exploit chains, CVE-2020-1380 and CVE-2020-0986, also used in
Operation Powerfall. Based on the exploit code and infection scheme characteristics, we
suspect that Operation PowerFall has a connection with the ScarCruft group. The exploit
chain contains several stages of shellcode execution, finally deploying a Windows
executable payload in memory. We discovered several victims from South Korea and
Singapore. Besides this watering-hole attack, this group also used Windows executable
malware concealing its payload. This malware, dubbed “ATTACK-SYSTEM”, also used
multi-stage shellcode infection to deliver the same final payload named “BlueLight”.
BlueLight uses OneDrive for C2. Historically, ScarCruft malware, especially RokRat, took
advantage of personal cloud servers as C2 servers, such as pCloud, Box, Dropbox, and
Yandex.
In May 2020, the Criminal Investigation Bureau (CIB) of Taiwan published an
announcement about an attack targeting Taiwanese legislators. Based on their
information, an unknown attacker sent spear-phishing emails using a fake presidential
palace email account, delivering malware we dubbed “Palwan”. Palwan is malware
capable of performing basic backdoor functionality as well as downloading further
modules with additional capabilities. Analysing the malware, we discovered another
campaign, active in parallel, targeting Nepal. We also found two more waves of attacks
launched against Nepal in October 2020 and in January this year using Palwan malware
variants. We suspect that the targeted sector in Nepal is similar to the one reported by the
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 6/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
CIB of Taiwan. Investigating the infrastructure used in the Nepal campaigns, we spotted
an overlap with Dropping Elephant activity. However, we don’t deem this overlap
sufficient to attribute this activity to the Dropping Elephant threat actor.
BlueNoroff is a long-standing, financially motivated APT group that has been targeting
the financial industry for years. In recent operations, the group has focused on
cryptocurrency businesses. Since the publication of our research of BlueNoroff’s
“SnatchCrypto” campaign in 2020, the group’s strategy to deliver malware has evolved. In
this campaign, BlueNoroff used a malicious Word document exploiting CVE-2017-0199, a
remote template injection vulnerability. The injected template contains a Visual Basic
script, which is responsible for decoding the next payload from the initial Word document
and injecting it into a legitimate process. The injected payload creates a persistent
backdoor on the victim’s machine. We observed several types of backdoor. For further
surveillance of the victim, the malware operator may also deploy additional tools.
BlueNoroff has notably set up fake blockchain, or cryptocurrency-related, company
websites for this campaign, to lure potential victims and initiate the infection process.
Numerous decoy documents were used, which contain business and nondisclosure
agreements as well as business introductions. When compared to the previous
SnatchCrypto campaign, the BlueNoroff group utilized a similar backdoor and PowerShell
agent but changed the initial infection vector. Windows shortcut files attached to spearphishing emails used to be the starting point for an infection: they have now been
replaced by weaponized Word documents.
We have discovered Andariel activity using a revised infection scheme and custom
ransomware targeting a broad spectrum of industries located in South Korea. In April, we
observed a suspicious document containing a Korean file name and decoy uploaded to
VirusTotal. It revealed a novel infection scheme and an unfamiliar payload. During the
course of our research, Malwarebytes published a report with technical details about the
same series of attacks, which attributed it to the Lazarus group. After a deep analysis we
reached a different conclusion – that the Andariel group was behind these attacks. Code
overlaps between the second stage payload in this campaign and previous malware from
the Andariel group allowed for this attribution. Apart from the code similarity and the
victimology, we found additional connections with the Andariel group. Each threat actor
has a characteristic habit when they interactively work with a backdoor shell in the postexploitation phase. The way Windows commands and their options were used in this
campaign is almost identical to previous Andariel activity. The threat actor has been
spreading the third stage payload since the middle of 2020 and leveraged malicious Word
documents and files mimicking PDF documents as infection vectors. Notably, in addition
to the final backdoor, we discovered one victim infected with custom ransomware. This
ransomware adds another facet to this Andariel campaign, which also sought financial
profit in a previous operation involving the compromise of ATMs.
We recently uncovered a large-scale and highly active attack in Southeast Asia coming
from a threat actor we dubbed LuminousMoth. Further analysis revealed that this
malicious activity dates back to October 2020 and was still ongoing at the time we
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 7/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
reported it in June. LuminousMoth takes advantage of DLL sideloading to download and
execute a Cobalt Strike payload. However, perhaps the most interesting part of this attack
is its capability to spread to other hosts by infecting USB drives. In addition to the
malicious DLLs, the attackers also deployed a signed, but fake version of the popular
application Zoom on some infected systems, enabling them to exfiltrate files; and an
additional tool that accesses a victim’s Gmail session by stealing cookies from the Chrome
browser. Infrastructure ties as well as shared TTPs allude to a possible connection
between LuminousMoth and the HoneyMyte threat group, which was seen targeting the
same region and using similar tools in the past. Most early sightings of this activity were
in Myanmar, but it now appears that the attackers are much more active in the
Philippines, where the number of known attacks has grown more than tenfold. This raises
the question of whether this is caused by a rapid replication through removable devices or
by an unknown infection vector, such as a watering-hole focusing on the Philippines.
We recently reported SideCopy campaigns attacking the Windows platform together with
Android-based implants. These implants turned out to be multiple applications working
as information stealers to collect sensitive information from victims’ devices, such as
contact lists, SMS messages, call recordings, media and other types of data. Following up,
we discovered additional malicious Android applications, some of them purporting to be
known messaging apps like Signal or an adult chat platform. These newly discovered
applications use the Firebase messaging service as a channel to receive commands. The
operator is able to control if either Dropbox or another, hard coded server is used to
exfiltrate stolen files.