TECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR COUNTERACTING CYBERATTACKS
group-ib.com
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Technical recommendations for counteracting cyberattacks
Primitive errors: vulnerable
software versions in publicly
accessible services or weak
passwords; vulnerabilities
with public exploits
Distributed brute-force
attacks on remote access
interfaces (RDP, SSH, VPN)
and other services (using
new botnets)
IoT botnet owners selling
access to devices installed
on corporate
networks
group-ib.com
— Update software regularly.
— Automatically inventory software to identify outdated
programs.
— Regularly conduct security assessments and penetration
testing to identify weaknesses in the network and establish
possible attack vectors.
— Enhance your password policy.
— Implement multi-factor authentication.
— Implement VPNs to protect services on the external network
perimeter. If this is not an option, set up an SSO.
— Make an inventory of the external network perimeter, firewall
rules, and network address translation (NAT) rules to prevent
services from being externally accessible by mistake.
— Do not, under any circumstances or even temporarily, make
devices that can easily be compromised accessible from the
Internet. These include devices used for video surveillance,
smart homes, office equipment (printers, scanners, and multifunctional devices), and storage such as NAS servers in the
SOHO segment.
— Ensure that remote access services for operating systems
are not accessible externally (e.g., RDP, SSH, VNC, SMB/RPC).
— If this cannot be avoided, change the SSH/RDP port
to a non-default one and implement a white list
of IP addresses that can access these services.
— Ensure that remote access meets the following
requirements:
— Multi-factor authentication.
— Enhanced password policy.
— The ability to restrict network access for the tasks
of a specific account (e.g., contractors are granted
access only to servers they need, not the entire segment
or network).
— Set fields such as "expires at" for accounts and access rules
in case manual revocation of remote access fails.
— Make an inventory of the external network perimeter,
firewall rules, and network address translation (NAT) rules
to prevent services from being externally accessible
by mistake.
— Do not, under any circumstances and even temporarily,
make devices that can be easily compromised accessible from the Internet: video surveillance devices, smart
home devices, office equipment (printers, scanners, and
multifunctional devices), and storage devices such as NAS
servers in the SOHO segment.
— Ensure that remote access services for operating systems
are not accessible externally (e.g., RDP, SSH, VNC, SMB/
RPC, etc.).
— If this cannot be avoided, change the SSH/RDP port
to a non-default one and implement a white list
of IP addresses that can access these services.
— Ensure that remote access meets the following
requirements:
— Multi-factor authentication.
— Enhanced password policy.
— The ability to restrict network access for the tasks
of a specific account (e.g., contractors are granted
access only to servers they need, not the entire segment or network).
— Set fields such as "expires at" for accounts and access
rules in case manual revocation of remote access fails.
page 72 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Technical recommendations for counteracting cyberattacks
Ransomware — Be prepared to identify signs of initial compromise,
methods used to achieve persistence in the system, and
lateral movement. Although attack techniques are usually
primitive and can be detected with the naked eye, more
advanced attacks can be identified only by hunting for
threats.
— Regularly check your infrastructure for known bad indicators
of compromise.
— The success of ransomware affiliate programs depends
on an organization's overall level of security. We recommend
                                                              using security systems such as Group [IB Threat Hunting](https://www.group-ib.com/threat-hunting-framework.html?utm_source=htct&utm_medium=report&utm_campaign=recomendations&utm_content=eng)

Framework and Group-IB Threat Intelligence
& Attribution.
Post-exploitation frame-
works: a free tool called
Metasploit and a cracked
version of Cobalt Strike.
Less often, the frameworks
PoshC2 and Koadic.
— Ensure that your security tools are able to detect tracks
of popular post-exploitation frameworks.
— Ensure that a sufficient number of different and unique
data sources are used when assessing the security level
of your infrastructure and preparing for attacks.
Supply-chain attacks — Ensure that your current security tools are able to detect anomalous activity when legitimate software is being used.
Such activity may include launches of atypical processes,
creation of files, and file system or registry modifications
that are usually used to achieve persistence in the system.
— Common security tools are usually unable to handle such tasks, therefore we recommend considering
                                           Group [IB Threat Hunting Framework.](https://www.group-ib.com/threat-hunting-framework.html?utm_source=htct&utm_medium=report&utm_campaign=recomendations&utm_content=eng

)
Privilege escalation using
various software (e.g.,
Mimikatz, LaZagne) or
brute-force attacks
Tools for attacks on physi-
cally isolated networks
that use USB devices
for jumping the air gap
group-ib.com
To counteract Mimikatz, we recommend:
— Update your systems to Windows 10/2016 with the
Credentials Guard feature.
— Use the Protected Users group for administrator accounts.
— Build a privileged access management system in accordance with Microsoft recommendations.
— If you believe that attackers may bypass the methods listed
above, or if it is impossible to implement the above recommendations, ensure that the existing security controls are
able to detect the use of Mimikatz (most often launched
using post-exploitation frameworks).
— Log access to lsass.exe process memory and identify suspicious processes that may perform such activity.
Do not use untrusted USB devices or USB devices of unknown/
questionable origin.
page 73 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
BGP hijacking
and route leaks
→ Technical recommendations for counteracting cyberattacks
How successfully you repel such attacks largely depends
on other Internet users.
— Implement Group-IB Threat Hunting Framework and Threat
Intelligence systems to check whether your organization
has been compromised
Attacks on card process-
ing and interbank transfer
systems
The success of such attacks is highly dependent on your
organization's level of security.
— Implement Group-IB Threat Hunting Framework and
  Group [IB Threat Intelligence & Attribution systems to check](https://www.group-ib.com/intelligence-attribution.html?utm_source=htct&utm_medium=report&utm_campaign=recomendations&utm_content=eng

)
whether your organization has been compromised
JS sniffers — Regularly update CMS and plugins, and control versions
of website files.
— Enhance the password policy for administrative accounts
on websites.
— Use Group-IB Fraud Hunting Platform to detect web
injections.
Attacks on POS terminals There are no specific recommendations, as the success
of such attacks is highly dependent on your organization's level of security.
— Implement Group-IB Threat Hunting Framework and
                                           Group [IB Threat Intelligence & Attribution to check your](https://www.group-ib.com/intelligence-attribution.html?utm_source=htct&utm_medium=report&utm_campaign=recomendations&utm_content=eng

)
organization for compromise.
Credential stuffing — Prevent users from registering on any third-party ser-vices using corporate emails. Users tend to use the same
password on multiple services or modify their passwords.
If passwords are leaked from one service, a hacker can
attack a given company directly.
— A threat actor can use a breached password to conduct
a social engineering attack against a specific user.
— Check databases of leaked credentials for your accounts
                                                  (e.g., using Group [IB Threat Intelligence & Attribution).](https://www.group-ib.com/intelligence-attribution.html?utm_source=htct&utm_medium=report&utm_campaign=recomendations&utm_content=eng

)
New records in DDoS attack
volume: 2.3 Tb per second
and 809 million packets
per second
Banking botnets, Trojans
(TrickBot, Qbot, Silent Night
and others)
group-ib.com
— Switch to using an external balancer or proxy service;
increase architecture complexity; and move IP addresses
to external services to protect your entire infrastructure.
— Increase bandwidth.
— Purchase filtering hardware.
— Switch to operators with relevant anti-DDoS capacities.

Attack on vulnerable software: browsers, operating systems

— Perform timely software updates
— Do not click on suspicious links
— Do not install software from untrusted sources

Phishing campaigns:

— Do not open suspicious emails and attachments.
— Use Group-IB Threat Hunting Framework and similar solutions.
Such Trojans are well known and leave specific traces in the
target system. Make sure to install security tools that will detect
and repel Trojans in your infrastructure.
page 74 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
Web phishing and
social engineering
→ Technical recommendations for counteracting cyberattacks
Recommendations for marketplace customers:
— Pay attention to domain names, especially those shown
in search engine ads and conversations with sellers.
— Do not switch to communicating outside marketplaces, since chat histories will not be saved, and the
resource's anti-fraud rules will not work.
— Pay attention to the seller rating.
Recommendations for marketplaces:
— Create a fraud prevention system.
— Use Group-IB Fraud Hunting Platform.
Recommendations for other websites,
online stores, and their visitors:
— Check the date when the domain name was registered and
whether the domain is spelled correctly.
— Check the website content, including product descriptions
and user reviews.
— Be attentive to websites that appear on the top of advertising in search engines. Cybercriminals often buy such ads
to promote their websites.
— Be attentive to websites where the price of products
is set too low.
— Implement Group-IB Fraud Hunting Platform
and Group-IB Digital Risk Protection.
Growing demand for Linux
malware designed to achieve
persistence in the network
and escalate privileges
— Install packages only using official repositories
— Carefully check information about developers of packages
that are not available in official repositories.
— Follow general cybersecurity recommendations of the
Linux communities (e.g., remove SUID bits off unnecessary
binaries).
— Use minimum privileges when using untrusted software.
Mobile RATs — Do not install untrusted software
— Do not listen to intruders trying to persuade you to install
TeamViewer and any other software to connect a tech
support employee.
— Update software and operating systems in a timely manner.
For our clients: use Group-IB Fraud Hunting Platform, which
is able to detect active RATs on mobile devices.
group-ib.com
page 75 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Technical recommendations for counteracting cyberattacks
Gaining access to SCADA
systems at industrial enter-
prises to manipulate produc-
tion processes
Exploits and spyware suits
for Android and iOS
Initial compromise
through VPN servers
group-ib.com
— The success of such attacks is highly dependent on your
organization's level of security.
— Implement Group-IB's Threat Hunting Framework and
  Group [IB Threat Intelligence & Attribution systems to check](https://www.group-ib.com/intelligence-attribution.html?utm_source=htct&utm_medium=report&utm_campaign=recomendations&utm_content=eng)

whether your organization has been compromised
— Do not visit untrusted/suspicious websites.
— Do not install software from unverified sources.
— Perform timely updates of operating systems and software
— Separate personal and work devices.
— Use one device for work, the other for personal life, do not
mix them.
— Use Group-IB Fraud Hunting Platform and Group-IB Threat
Intelligence & Attribution (with notifications on new attacks,
new software, and exploits).
— Ensure that remote access meets the following
requirements:
— Multi-factor authentication
— Enhanced password policy
— The ability to restrict network access for the tasks
of a specific account (e.g., contractors are granted
access only to servers they need, not the entire segment or network)
— Set fields such as "expires at" for accounts and access
rules in case manual revocation of remote access fails.
page 76 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021