O Targeted intrusion adversaries took action to secure valuable
data on vaccine research and government responses to the pandemic, and even
criminal adversaries like CARBON SPIDER — facing a reduction of profits due to
the pandemic — proved their flexibility in the face of adversity. In 2021, adversaries
employing BGH operations will continue to investigate methods to maximize their
impact on targets, likely including custom development to support non-traditional
targets within an organization.
As their operations mature, both eCrime and targeted intrusion adversaries will
continue to develop and implement new methods to bypass detection and impede
analysis by researchers. Whether driven by public reporting or motivations internal
to their respective organizations, the pursuit of operational security will almost
certainly include improved obfuscation methods, use of commodity tooling and
living-off-the-land techniques.
The challenges of 2020, including the rapid pivot to “work-from-anywhere,” have
caused a level of social and economic upheaval that is unprecedented in modern
times. The widespread impact has not deterred cyber adversaries — in fact,
quite the opposite has occurred. In 2020, CrowdStrike observed adversaries
exploiting the situation, preying on the public’s fear and escalating attacks. These
recommendations will help you proactively address potential weaknesses before
they can be leveraged by attackers.
If you can’t see it, you can’t protect it. For security teams operating in today’s
environment, visibility and speed are critical for blocking attackers that have the
capability and intent to steal data and disrupt operations. Security teams must
understand that it is their responsibility to secure their cloud environments, just as
they would on-premises systems. They must establish consistent visibility for all
environments and proactively address potential vulnerabilities before they can be
leveraged by attackers.
Protect identities and access. Organizations must consider multifactor
authentication (MFA) on all public-facing employee services and portals as
mandatory. In addition to MFA, a robust privilege access management process will
limit the damage adversaries can do if they get in, and reduce the likelihood of lateral
movement. Finally, Zero Trust solutions should be implemented to compartmentalize
and restrict data access, thus reducing the potential damages from unauthorized
access to sensitive information.
Invest in expert threat hunting. Interactive attacks use stealthy or novel techniques
designed to bypass automated monitoring and detection. Continuous threat hunting
is the best way to detect and prevent sophisticated or persistent attacks.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 51
Get ahead of attackers with threat intelligence. There is a human being behind
every attack. Threat intelligence helps you understand an attacker's motivation, skills
and tradecraft so you can use this knowledge to your advantage to prevent, and
even predict, future attacks.
Make sure you have a current cybersecurity policy that accounts for remote
working. Security policies need to include access management for remote workers,
the use of personal devices, and updated data privacy considerations for employee
access to documents and other information.
Create a culture of cybersecurity. While technology is clearly critical in the fight to
detect and stop intrusions, the end user remains a crucial link in the chain to stop
breaches. User awareness programs should be initiated to combat the continued
threat of phishing and related social engineering techniques.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 52