South East Asia and Korean peninsula
Once again, this seems to be the most active region of the world in terms of APT activity.
In January, we identified new activity by the Transparent Tribe APT group (aka
PROJECTM and MYTHIC LEOPARD), a threat actor with interests aligned with Pakistan
that has shown a persistent focus on Indian military targets.
In February, we identified a campaign targeting military organizations, this time in India.
We are currently unable to attribute this campaign to any known threat actor. The
attackers rely on watering-holes and spear-phishing to infect their victims. Specifically,
they were able to compromise a website belonging to a think tank related to warfare
studies, using it to host a malicious document that distributed a variant of the Netwire
RAT. We also found evidence of a compromised welfare club for military personnel
distributing the same malware during the same time period.
OceanLotus was another actor active during this period, using a new downloader called
KerrDown, as reported by Palo Alto. The actor was discovered at the beginning of the
year using freshly-compiled samples in a new wave of attacks. ESET recently uncovered
a new addition to this actor’s toolset targeting Mac OS.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2019/90643/ 3/6
5/13/2019 APT trends report Q1 2019 | Securelist
In mid-2018, our report on “Operation AppleJeus” highlighted the focus of the Lazarus
threat actor on cryptocurrency exchanges. In this operation, the group used a fake
company with a backdoored product aimed at cryptocurrency businesses. One of the
key findings was the group’s new ability to target Mac OS. Since then, Lazarus has
expanded its operations for this platform. Further tracking of the group’s activities has
enabled us to discover a new operation, active since at least November 2018, which
utilizes PowerShell to control Windows systems and Mac OS malware to target Apple
customers. Lazarus isn’t the only APT group targeting cryptocurrency exchanges. The
Kimsuky group has also extended its activities to include individuals and companies in
this sector, mainly in South Korea.
Finally, at the start of the year, the South Asian Bitter group used a new simple
downloader (called ArtraDownloader by Palo Alto) that delivers the BitterRat Trojan to
target organizations in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan.