Threats
The following is a brief description of the
seven segments of the threat radar.
Dominant
Players
Technology
Dynamics
This segment covers threats arising through dependencies on dominant manufacturers,
services or protocols.
Urgent issues Infrastructure Integrity: Key components of critical infrastructure may
have had vulnerabilities built into them, whether through negligence or
maliciously, which endanger the security of the system.
Main topics Destabilising Centralisation: Strong centralisation in the structure
of the Internet leads to cluster risks. The breakdown of one service,
e.g. Amazon Web Services (AWS), can have a global impact.
This term covers threats arising from the fast pace of technological innovation, which both
creates new threats itself and also offers attackers new avenues for attack.
Main topics Targeted Attacks: Targeted and complex attacks designed to reach a
specific goal. This threat type is explained in greater detail in later sections
of this report.
All IP: The nationwide rollout of All IP also increases the risks associated
with VoIP technology.
5G Security: 5G is still a young technology and its launch will not only offer
many new opportunities but will also open the door to unknown threats.
Ransomware: Large amounts of critical data are encrypted and only
(possibly) decrypted in exchange for the payment of a ransom.
Early detection Automation & Scaling: Greater automation of technical operations will
mean that the repercussions of successful attacks and misconfigurations
will be greater.
Increased Complexity: The complexity of systems, especially across
technological and corporate borders, is on the rise. This increases risk
exposure and hampers troubleshooting.
Quantum Computing: Quantum computers can render existing cryptographic methods useless because they can crack them in no time.
Cyber goes
Physical
Organisation
Physical
This term covers attacks on infrastructure conducted from cyberspace, which will
increasingly cause damage in the physical world.
Main topics IoT Devices: Devices with weak protection could be compromised or
sabotaged. This could restrict their own functions, including their
availability or data integrity.
SCADA: There are many technical control systems for critical infrastructure, which are poorly protected and not well maintained.
Organisational threats arise through changes in the organisation or exploit weaknesses in
an organisation.
Main topics Infrastructure Misconfiguration: Exploitation of misconfigured infrastructure components and vulnerabilities that are identified too late and
patched late.
Workplace Diversity: Aside from the many opportunities that new working
models bring, an uncontrolled use of such models, e.g. “bring your own
device” (BYOD) or the increased use of remote workplaces, exposes
companies to greater risks.
Insider Threats: Partners or colleagues manipulate, misuse or sell
information, either through negligence or for malicious intent.
Decentralised Development: Classic pure development departments
disappear. Application development merges with the operations
departments and move closer to the business units. Release cycles are
getting shorter.
Threats that arise from the physical environment that are generally more focused on
physical targets.
Main topics Device Theft: The theft of devices – especially critical infrastructure
components and, increasingly, IoT Devices – may result in a loss of data or
impair service availability.
Drones and Robots: Reconnaissance and attacks over longer distances will
become easier and cheaper.
Observation 3D Printing: Improvements in the quality of 3D printers will make it
cheaper and easier to create e.g. keys and other physical devices.
Proliferation
Environmental/
Social
Threats that benefit from ever easier and cheaper access to IT media and know-how
are known as proliferation threats, because this creates new potential ways of attack:
It also increases the availability of tools that can be used for attacks.
Main topics Subscriber Compromisation: Malware attacks mobile users’ private data or
is used to attack telecommunication or IT infrastructure.
Early recognition IoT-Based DDoS: Strong growth in the number of IoT Devices coupled with
low-level protection creates more “takeover candidates” for botnets.
Digitalisation: The growing interaction between the virtual and real world
as also private and corporate environments create new ways of attacks.
This covers threats that arise out of socio-political change or which are either facilitated or
become more valuable to attackers.
Urgent issue Security job market: Great difficulties of meeting the demand for security
professionals mean that not enough expertise is available to counter the
increasingly complex and intelligent attacks.
Main topics Digital Identity: Trusted personal digital identities may be misused or
stolen, e.g. to conclude contracts under the names of others.
Early detection AI/Analytics: More data and better analytical models provided by AI can
be misused to influence people’s behaviour. Decisions are increasingly left
to autonomous systems.
Political Influence: Political trends can influence technological or economic
decisions, e.g. in the selection of technology suppliers. This can create
new risks.