Unveiling an unknown APT actor attacking high-profile entities in Europe and Asia
securelist.com /toddycat/106799
Authors
Giampaolo Dedola
ToddyCat is a relatively new APT actor that we have not been able to relate to other
known actors, responsible for multiple sets of attacks detected since December 2020
against high-profile entities in Europe and Asia. We still have little information about this
actor, but we know that its main distinctive signs are two formerly unknown tools that we
call ‘Samurai backdoor’ and ‘Ninja Trojan’.
The group started its activities in December 2020, compromising selected Exchange
servers in Taiwan and Vietnam using an unknown exploit that led to the creation of a
well-known China Chopper web shell, which was in turn used to initiate a multi-stage
infection chain. In that chain we observed a number of components that include custom
loaders used to stage the final execution of the passive backdoor Samurai.
During the first period, between December 2020 and February 2021, the group targeted a
very limited number of servers in Taiwan and Vietnam, related to three organizations.
From February 26 until early March, we observed a quick escalation and the attacker
abusing the ProxyLogon vulnerability to compromise multiple organizations across
Europe and Asia.
https://securelist.com/toddycat/106799/ 1/28
6/27/22, 3:49 PM ToddyCat: Unveiling an unknown APT actor attacking high-profile entities in Europe and Asia | Securelist
We suspect that this group started exploiting the Microsoft Exchange vulnerability in
December 2020, but unfortunately, we don’t have sufficient information to confirm the
hypothesis. In any case, it’s worth noting that all the targeted machines infected between
December and February were Microsoft Windows Exchange servers; the attackers
compromised the servers with an unknown exploit, with the rest of the attack chain the
same as that used in March.
Other vendors observed the attacks launched in March. Our colleagues at ESET dubbed
the cluster of activities ‘Websiic’, while the Vietnamese company GTSC released a report
about the infection vector and the technique used to deploy the first dropper. That said, as
far as we know, none of the public accounts described sightings of the full infection chain
or later stages of the malware deployed as part of this group’s operation.
The first wave of attacks exclusively targeted Microsoft Exchange Servers, which were
compromised with Samurai, a sophisticated passive backdoor that usually works on ports
80 and 443. The malware allows arbitrary C# code execution and is used with multiple
modules that allow the attacker to administrate the remote system and move laterally
inside the targeted network.
In some specific cases, the Samurai backdoor was also used to launch another
sophisticated malicious program that we dubbed Ninja. This tool is probably a component
of an unknown post-exploitation toolkit exclusively used by ToddyCat.
Based on the code logic, it appears that Ninja is a collaborative tool allowing multiple
operators to work on the same machine simultaneously. It provides a large set of
commands, which allow the attackers to control remote systems, avoid detection and
penetrate deep inside a targeted network. Some capabilities are similar to those provided
in other notorious post-exploitation toolkits. For example, Ninja has a feature like Cobalt
Strike pivot listeners, which can limit the number of direct connections from the targeted
network to the remote C2 and control systems without internet access. It also provides
the ability to control the HTTP indicators and camouflage malicious traffic in HTTP
requests that appear legitimate by modifying HTTP header and URL paths. This feature
provides functionality that reminds us of the Cobalt Strike Malleable C2 profile.
Since it first appeared in December 2020, ToddyCat has continued its intense activity,
especially in Asia where we detect many other variants of loaders and installers similar to
those abused to load Samurai and Ninja malware. We also observed other waves of
attacks against desktop machines that were infected by sending the malicious loaders via
Telegram.