What is Ocean Lotus?
The cyber-security industry, comprised of individual and company-based
researchers, routinely researches and publishes information about attack groups targeting
companies and governments. The industry often gives informal names to
groups they continuously track based on each group’s unique tactics and tools. Ocean
Lotus (also commonly called APT32 or APT-C-00) is one of these groups.
The first known Ocean Lotus attack happened in 2014. It targeted US-based NGO
Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), the Associated Press international news
organization and two Vietnamese activists. This group was named Ocean Lotus in a report
from the Chinese company Qihoo 360 in May 2015. In 2017, the American cyber-security
company FireEye published a report linking the 2014 EFF and other attacks to this same
Ocean Lotus.
Over the years, Ocean Lotus has developed a sophisticated spyware toolkit comprised of
several variants of Mac OS spyware, Android spyware and Windows spyware. They also
strategically compromise websites in order to identify visitors and conduct further
targeting. More recently, Ocean Lotus was found creating fake media websites based on
content automatically gathered online.
A significant part of the group’s activities is the targeting of HRDs and civil society. In
2017, the cyber-security company Volexity revealed that over 100 websites were
compromised, including many belonging to human rights organizations from Viet
Nam, in an attack campaign that they attributed to Ocean Lotus. Numerous other spyware
2/7
attacks linked to Ocean Lotus against human rights organizations have also been
reported, such as the targeting of the Cambodian human rights organization,
LICADHO in 2018.
The cyber-security company FireEye describes Ocean Lotus’ operations as “aligned with
Vietnamese state interests” based on the list of targeted companies and civil society
groups they identified. In December 2020, Facebook published a threat report linking
Ocean Lotus’ activities with a Vietnamese company named CyberOne Group. Although
Amnesty International was unable to independently verify any direct connection between
Ocean Lotus and CyberOne or with the Vietnamese authorities, the attacks described
in this investigation confirm a pattern of targeting Vietnamese individuals and
organizations.