Methods and capabilities
39
The attacker(s) are able to exploit several infection vectors. First, they create web pages that
contain “drive by” exploit code that infects the computers of those who visit the page. Second, the
attacker(s) have also shown that they engage in spear phishing in which contextually relevant emails
are sent to targets with PDF and DOC attachments which, when executed, create back doors that
cause the infected computer to connect to a control server and await further instructions.
With each successful infection the attacker(s) may use any contextually relevant data to further
exploit the targeted community and may also impersonate the initial target in order to infect all the
targets’ contacts. Finally, the targets themselves may infect others by forwarding infected documents
to their contacts. In this way, the network of infected computers grows organically.
The first stage of infection focuses on getting targets to execute malicious code. Once infected, the target’s
computer routinely checks in with a control server in order to receive further instructions. At this stage,
the attacker(s) acquires some initial information regarding the identity of the infected computer.
Newer versions of the administration interface contain a direct link to a web service that looks up
the relevant WHOIS information about the IP address of the infected computer along with a simple
port scan. This version also does a geoIP lookup on the infected computer’s IP address and lists the
country in which the computer is located, indicating that the attacker(s) has an interest in the
geographical location of the infected computers.
The attack may also issue an acquire system information command that causes the infected computer to upload
its hardware statistics, list of programs installed, list of recent documents, and current network connections.
The attacker(s) may use this information to target the infected computer for further exploitation.
The attacker(s) directs the infected computers to download and install a remote administration
Trojan. The attacker(s) have demonstrated a preference for gh0st RAT but may choose from a variety
of Trojans. The attacker(s) simply browses to the “send command” interface and pastes in a link to
a version of gh0st RAT on a “command” server under his or her control. The next time the infected
computer checks in to the control server, it will be instructed to download and execute gh0st RAT .
Upon completion, the infected computer notifies the control server and the result appears in the
attacker(s)’ web interface.
Once gh0st RAT is installed on the target, the infected computer will periodically check a specific
location and retrieve the IP address to which it is supposed to connect. When the attacker(s)
is not available, he or she will often change this IP to 127.0.0.1 (localhost) so that the amount
of potentially suspicious external traffic is limited. When the attacker(s) is ready to receive
connections, the IP address is changed to a valid external IP address.
When the attacker(s) turns on gh0st RAT, he or she is able to see all the infected machines that have
established connections to him or her. The attacker(s) may then execute a wide variety of commands,
including file manager, screen capture, keylogger, remote shell, system, webcam view, audio capture,
as well as the ability to force the infected host to download and execute additional malware, such as
a gh0st RAT update. The attacker(s) may also secretly execute programs on the target computer.
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART TWO