Overlap with Previous Campaigns
Our initial observation of the Bahamut group originated from in-the-wild attempts to deceive targets
into providing account passwords through impersonation of platform providers. After unpacking the
larger targeting of the attacks, the credential theft operations were found to cover a broad range of
interests in the Middle East, such as Turkish diplomats and Iranian political figures in the lead up to
the recent presidential election. As we noted then, these incidents stood out because they exceeded
the level of care and preparation seen in the everyday cybercrime. In our report, we also noted a
“ ”          -          -          similarity to the Operation Kingphish (http://medium.com/amnesty insights/operation kingphish
   -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       uncovering a campaign of cyber attacks against civil society in qatar and aa40c9e08852)

campaign published by Amnesty International earlier this year. As we wrote then, compared to
Kingphish, Bahamut “operates as though it were a generation ahead in terms of professionalism and
ambition.”
A more recent credential theft attempt provided the most credible link between the two campaigns
thus far, and bolsters our hypothesis that the operations are related. Among a flurry of spearphishing
attempts associated with Bahamut in recent weeks, one fake Google message directed its target to a
unique domain (string2port[.]com) to steal login credentials. The string2port domain (registered in
May 2016) strongly reflects the ping2port[.]info domain (registered in September 2016) that was used
in Kingphish against Qatar-focused labor rights advocates. The ping2port domain is now pending
deletion – abandoned due to discovery – but the previously unnoticed and related string2port has
been reused. Given the similarities in tactics, administration of infrastructure, domains, and other
factors, it appears increasingly clear both campaigns against Middle Eastern diplomats and those
directed against human rights advocates are connected.
The similarities to other research is not limited to Kingphish, and includes a prolific campaign in
South Asia. In our original post we noted that an expansive operation was evident from a search of
potential domains based on common pattern in domain registration and hosting behavior (an AngloEuropean name sometimes followed by a number at mail.ru, often also found in the DNS ‘Start of
Authority’ record). Here too, we find multiple other candidate domains based on simple search
patterns, although other email providers such as Pobox.sk are now more common. While we published
a number of domain names that were clearly malicious and similar to Bahamut, we did not post the
full list out of a concern of false positives. Included in these results was a domain i3mode[.]com,
which used a Mail.ru contact email and was hosted on a network found in other Bahamut
spearphishing attempts.
Whois (i3mode[.]com):
Registrant Name: KEDRICK BROWN
Registrant Phone: +503.503226605642
Registrant Email: KEDRICK.BROWN.84@MAIL.RU
This domain appears in Kaspersky’s blog post “ (https://securelist.com/inpage-zero-day-exploit-used
 -  -  -  -  -  to attack fnanciali institutions in asia/76717/)InPage zero day exploit used to attack fnanciali
”            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            institutions in Asia (https://securelist.com/inpage zero day exploit used to attack fnanciali
   -       institutions in asia/76717/) from November 2016. That campaign targeted financial institutions with

malware that took advantage of a vulnerability in text processing software popular with Urdu and
Arabic speaking users. The domains in the InPage campaign match the same pattern of registration
and hosting within Bahamut. The Urdu connection recalls our identification of Android malware
posing as a Urdu Quranic reference. This thematic overlap also includes a relevant sample “Analysis
Report on Kashmir.exe,” which would be of interest to a South Asian audience. Additionally, another
sample connecting to the i3mode domain (“E-Challan.zip”) appears to be a reference to receipt for
payment or delivery specific to India and Pakistan. The staging domain for that malware also has
another subdomain that appeared to reference an Indian business newspaper (“mint-newsportal.hymnfork.com”).
This faint connection in domains and similar interests provides a first hint that Bahamut is more
active than we were previously aware and bolsters our hypothesis that the group is a hackers-for-hire
operation.