CHINA
Previewing the 14th Five-Year Plan
In October 2020, the CCP outlined the party's 14th Five-Year Plan (14FYP/ 十四个五年
规划 ) lasting from 2021-2025 and the Long-Term Vision for 2035 (2035 Vision/2035
远景目标 ). Though the new plan will not become formalized until March 2021, a
preliminary communique released following the October meeting outlined the CCP’s
overall ambitions, with areas of focus to include:
1. Technology and Research & Development: Improve scientific and
technological self-reliance and support innovation-driven technological
breakthroughs.
2. Economic Data: Enhance domestic market and build a high-level socialist
market economic system.
3. Agriculture and Clean Energy: Promote green development, and agricultural
and rural development.
4. Urban Planning: Optimize layout of urban and rural development; alleviate
poverty in rural areas.
5. Healthcare and Insurance: Improve quality of life and equalization of basic
public services; create a comprehensive health system.
6. Media: Improve the country’s cultural soft power and cultural industry.
7. Defense: Accelerate the modernization of national defense and the army to
support the objectives of a rich country and a strong military.
Achieving new technological breakthroughs will likely underpin nearly all of China’s
short- and medium-term goals. The CCP’s technology transfer programs combine
physical and cyber methodologies to identify key intelligence gaps and then seek
to satisfy those gaps via cyber theft, cyber espionage, joint ventures or corporate
acquisitions. CrowdStrike Intelligence assesses with high confidence that Chinanexus adversaries will almost certainly continue to support these objectives in 2021
in the absence of any meaningful consequences. The CCP’s mention of accelerating
its military and soft power within the 14FYP is also notable and suggests continuing
efforts to improve the People's Liberation Army Strategic Support Force (PLASSF)
and Chinese cyber forces.
Outlook
Though 2020 saw a high increase in the number of China-related U.S. DOJ
indictments, as well as significant tariffs levied by the U.S., these had relatively little
impact on China’s cyber operational tempo, as evidenced by WICKED PANDA’s
return mere weeks after its public indictment. Critical improvements to watch for
from China in 2021 include a resurgence of PLASSF-affiliated adversaries with
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 38