Digital Infrastructure
Through a pivot we have conducted on the main domain that we have identified in our research we
have found more than eight new and unknown domains, all of which bear the '.site' TLD. For instance:
customers-recovery[.]site
com-verifications[.]site
com-session[.]site
Each of these domains resolves to a different IP, yet almost all of them point – through DNS research
– at the same Nameserver - ns11025[.]ztomy[.]com:
We have succeeded to identify the new domains through this Nameserver.
As we pointed out, we identified a step up in the recent campaign regarding the targeting of Yahoo
accounts. The group has acted in the past, in 2017, to acquire the usernames and passwords for those
accounts, yet it seems that in the recent years it has moved its focus to Google accounts. In this
research, we found that the threat actor focuses again in Yahoo accounts and impersonation to Yahoo
services. Below an example to an URL address of one of the group's phishing sites which depicts an
impersonation to Yahoo services such as YMail.
In our previous report we uncovered a server-registered method which in, the malicious server will
redirect the client from the phishing website to the original website (HTTP 302 in port 442 or 301 in
port 80). In this time too it has set its server in a way that redirects to the original Yahoo site, if a not
dedicated (i.e. specifically authorized) entrance is attempted.
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 15 of 19
A redirection to Yahoo services identified in Charming Kitten servers leveraged to impersonate Yahoo
Unlike our previous research efforts, this time we have succeeded in finding those servers before the
redirect, so the 302 protocol appears as 'found'. Additionally, this time the group uses a self-signed
digital certificate for its phishing sites.
As a part of Clearsky monitoring on DNS changes of suspicious and malicious infrastructure, we have
identified phishing domains that impersonate Microsoft services, part of which were exposed by
Microsoft [6] . On March 2019, Microsoft filed an official complaint against Phosphorus (known as
Charming Kitten), which includes 99 websites targeting Microsoft users. Clearsky has been monitoring
this infrastructure and identified several changes, such as new suspicious domains and new IPs.
6 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2019/03/27/new-steps-to-protect-customers-from-
hacking/
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 16 of 19
This photo presents one of these DNS changes within the malicious infrastructure. The domain
‘identifier-activities[.]info’ moved from one IP to another and the NS of it changed to the malicious NS
‘ns2[.]microsoftinternetsafety[.]net’. This domain is currently resolved to the IP address
40.112.253[.]185.
Following a Maltego graph summarized the changes in the infrastructure:
This IP address currently resolves two highly suspicious domains that are attributed to the group –
‘login-gov[.]info’, and broadcastnews[.]pro’. We assess with a medium level of certainty that the
domains may be utilized for the continuation of the campaign against governmental entities in the
US, and against journalists, respectively.
Moreover, under this IP we identified the domain ‘bahaius[.]info’ which impersonates to the official
websites of the Bahais in the United States of America, ‘bahai.us’.
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 17 of 19