The Sygnia Incident Response team identified an advanced and persistent threat actor, operating almost completely in-memory. The operators behind the activity targeted Windows internet-facing servers, using mostly deserialization attacks, to load a completely volatile, custom malware platform tailored for the Windows IIS environment. Sygnia refers to this threat actor as “Praying Mantis”.
1 Copy paste compromises
During the past year, Sygnia’s Incident Response team has been
responding to a series of targeted cyber intrusion attacks,
performed by a highly capable and persistent threat actor –
TG1021: “Praying Mantis”. These attacks targeted prominent
organizations and compromised their networks by exploiting
internet facing servers.
The initial foothold within a network was obtained by leveraging
a variety of deserialization exploits targeting Windows IIS servers
and web applications. The activity observed suggests that the
threat actor is highly familiar with the Windows IIS platform, and
equipped with 0-day exploits.
TG1021 utilize a completely volatile and custom malware
framework tailor-made for IIS servers. The core component,
loaded on to internet facing IIS servers, intercepts and handles
any HTTP request received by the server. TG1021 also use an
additional stealthy backdoor and several post-exploitations
modules to perform network reconnaissance, elevate
privileges, and move laterally within networks.
The nature of the activity and general modus-operandi suggest
TG1021 to be an experienced stealthy actor, highly aware of
OPSEC (operations security). The malware used by TG1021
shows a significant effort to avoid detection, both by actively
interfering with logging mechanisms, successfully evading
commercial EDRs and by silently awaiting incoming
connections, rather than connecting back to a C2 channel and
continuously generating traffic. Furthermore, the threat actor
actively removed all disk-resident tools after using them,
effectively giving up on persistency in exchange for stealth.
The threat actor’s tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs)
strongly correlate with the ones described in an advisory
published by the Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) –
“Copy-paste compromises” [1] . The advisory, published in June
2020, details the activity of a sophisticated state-sponsored
actor which represents “ the most significant, coordinated
cyber-targeting against Australian institutions the Australian
Government has ever observed .”
2