Training
Training prepares Soldiers to execute missions that shape operational environment,
prevent conflict, and conduct large-scale combat operations against peer threats. Army
forces must be organized, trained, and equipped to meet worldwide challenges. The
Army plans and executes tough, realistic training that includes unit training that occurs
continuously while at home station, at a combat training center, and during
deployments.
OVERVIEW OF TRAINING
G-1. Commanders ensure Soldiers and units train under challenging and realistic conditions that closely
replicate an OE while incorporating the Army principles of training:
 Train as you fight.
 Train to standard.
 Train to sustain.
 Train to maintain.
G-2. Individual training occurs in all three training domains: institutional, operational, and selfdevelopment. Institutional training includes initial and ongoing individual training aligned with each
cyberspace and EW professional’s individual development plan. Additionally, Soldiers conduct individual
and collective training during home-station and combat training to stay abreast of the continually advancing
techniques, technologies, and trends that occur in cyberspace and the EMS.
I NSTITUTIONAL T RAINING
G-3. Commissioned officers, warrant officers, and enlisted Soldiers seeking a career in cyberspace
operations and EW benefit from intensive institutional training before forwarding to their first assigned unit.
Institutional training will continue throughout these Soldiers’ careers. Cyber Common Technical College and
Electronic Warfare College resides at the United States Army Cyber Center of Excellence. These colleges
provide institutional training to active Army, United States Army Reserve, and Army National Guard
cyberspace and EW Soldiers with a level of understanding in cyberspace operations, electromagnetic warfare,
and associated doctrine. Cyber Soldiers learn how to combine Army operations, intelligence, and small unit
tactics with foundational skills in cyberspace offensive and defensive tasks. EW Soldiers learn Army
operations and small unit tactics with foundational skills in EA, ES, and EP tasks. Events conducted during
institutional training ensure cyberspace operations and EW Soldiers become proficient in their respective
career fields and include such training events as—
 Classroom training consisting of instruction from civilian and military institutional instructors.
 Training lanes.
 Capstone training events.
H OME -S TATION T RAINING
G-4. The CEWO is responsible for coordinating with each subordinate staff to conceive and implement an
annual home-station training plan. The CEWO aligns the home-station training plan with the unit’s mission
essential task list consisting of essential individual and collective tasks that Soldiers must accomplish. The
CEWO aligns home-station training with how the unit will operate during evaluations at a combat training
center. The home-station training plan includes subject matter that ensures the unit’s cyberspace operations
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 G-1
Appendix G
and EW professionals remain proficient in their respective career fields and can consist of such training
events as—
 Classroom training and instruction from mobile training team(s) (MTT).
 Training lanes.
 Field training exercises.
G-5. At a minimum, classroom training for cyberspace operations Soldiers should include DCO-IDM
related instructions including—
 Securing Windows operating systems.
 Computer forensic investigation.
 Incident response.
 Intrusion detection in-depth.
 Hacker techniques.
 Exploits and incident mitigation and prevention.
 Network penetration testing.
 Ethical hacking.
 Auditing networks, perimeters, and information technology systems.
G-6. At a minimum, classroom training for EW Soldiers should include—
 General mathematic and algebraic concepts.
 Radio frequency fundamentals and calculations.
 Antenna theory.
 Direction-finding fundamentals.
 Principles on detecting and identifying frequencies of interest
 Compilation of EW running estimates.
 Joint spectrum interference report and EMI reporting procedures.
 Digital signal processing.
 Electromagnetic Warfare Planning and Management Tool familiarity and scenario planning.
 Fundamentals of maneuver.
G-7. Training and instructions from MTTs allow cyberspace operations and EW Soldiers to meet with
military and commercial experts. MTTs provide added real-world insight and practices and to establish and
maintain professional networks for increased operational efficiency at home station. Training lanes provide
cyberspace operations and EW Soldiers the opportunity to exercise combining efforts that culminate homestation training and assist with ensuring unit readiness and survivability. Training lanes can include such
simulations as communication jamming to provide realism that emphasizes the importance of primary,
alternate, contingency, and emergency plans. Subordinate units can use information from training events by
conducting after-action reviews to develop primary, alternate, contingency, and emergency plans.
COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS
G-8. The Army currently has three maneuver combat training centers: The National Training Center, at Fort
Irwin, California; the Joint Readiness Training Center, at Fort Polk, Louisiana; and the Joint Multinational
Readiness Center, in Hohenfels, Germany, and the Mission Command Training Program (MCTP) worldwide
deployable combat training center. Combat training center training simulates real-world events by creating
real-world scenarios that units may encounter during deployment. Operational forces assigned to combat
training center s impose these real-world scenarios on units. Combat training centers evaluate rotational
training units for combat readiness determined by the proactive and reactive measures taken to prevent or
mitigate obstacles presented during real-world scenarios.
G-9. In a decisive action scenario, cyberspace operations and EW are essential to gaining and maintaining
tactical advantages needed for a favorable resolution. Combat training centers continuously observe the
rotational training units’ ability to operate in an OE that includes simulated conflict and competition. Combat
training centers assist commanders in assessing their units’ overall combat readiness; proficiency in mission
G-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Training
essential task list related tasks, and those critical and essential tasks that require additional training.
Commanders can then oversee the implementation of necessary changes to home-station training to improve
proficiency.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 G-3