Bowen Press Lures
The earliest domains registered by the operators that follow the pattern of mimicking China related news organizations were decoys
for Bowen Press. The real Bowen Press domain is bowenpress[.]com, the operators registered bowenpress[.]org. We were
unable to retrieve the content that originally appeared on the domains in 2015. However, we were able to find copied Bowen Press
content on the malware server through Google searches on the “news” subdirectory of the server. The content was an iframe of the
front page of Bowen Press and results in rendering additional error messages (See Figure 13 ). The existence of Bowen Press
content on this server suggests that the operators may have been using Bowen Press lures to serve malware.
Figure 13: Comparison of real and fake Bowen Press webpages
Additionally,we found the Netwire samples in a directory under the URL www.bowenpress[.]org/Adobe/update, even though
the website serving the sample was a copy of HK01. The use of this URL path further suggests that the fake Bowen Press domain
and content were used to serve malware at some point. The operators may have simply reused the domain for the HK01 related
campaign.
On March 15, 2017, the front page of the malware server was changed to a copy of the Bowen Press website that mirrored content
from the same day (see Figure 14 ). The copied page did not contain any malicious code and we were unable to find a log.txt file
on the server.
Figure 14: Screenshot of the malware server on March 15 2017 showing copied content from Bowen Press.
The only change to the content of the page was the removal of a bot check supplied by WordFence, a security plugin for the
WordPress blogging platform. On March 21, the content was removed and the server returned a blank page.
We cannot confirm what was the purpose of the recently copied Bowen Press content. However, it shows that the operators have
had a continued interest in using Bowen Press content as lures potentially to serve malware.