Conclusion
LYCEUM is an emerging threat to energy organizations in the Middle East, but organizations
should not assume that future targeting will be limited to this sector. Critical infrastructure
organizations in particular should take note of the threat group’s tradecraft. Aside from deploying
novel malware, LYCEUM’s activity demonstrates capabilities CTU researchers have observed
from other threat groups and reinforces the value of a few key controls. Password spraying, DNS
tunneling, social engineering, and abuse of security testing frameworks are common tactics,
particularly from threat groups operating in the Middle East. While there are many security
controls that could mitigate aspects of a LYCEUM intrusion, CTU researchers recommend the
following to provide broad protection and detection capabilities that apply to a spectrum of threats:
Implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) — Every corporate remote access service
available on the Internet, including cloud applications such as Office 365/Outlook, external
virtual private networks (VPNs), and single sign-on (SSO) pages, should require users to
provide a one-time password in addition to their regular password. However, simply
sending auto-enrollment emails can allow threat actors to enroll themselves using
compromised accounts and continue their operations unhindered.
Increase visibility via endpoint detection, response, and logging — Incident response efforts
are often hampered by a lack of visibility in the environment. This condition may be due to
the absence of logs that allow network defenders to forensically piece together what
happened or insufficient tools to monitor for ongoing threat actor activity. Endpoint
monitoring tools are essential for detecting suspicious activity in the environment after other
controls have been evaded.
Conduct preparedness exercises — Technology solutions cannot address all cybersecurity
risks. Employees are both vulnerabilities and assets. Fostering a culture that focuses on
security awareness and makes it easy for staff to work efficiently in a crisis reduces the
overall frequency, impact, and cost of security incidents.
https://www.secureworks.com/blog/lyceum-takes-center-stage-in-middle-east-campaign Incident response — Table-top exercises can benefit organizations at different 4/6
stagesInvolvingstakeholdersfromlegalpublicrelationsandothergroupsacross
8/29/2019 Cyber Threat Group LYCEUM Takes Center Stage in Middle East Campaign | Secureworks
the organization provides insight about what data is and is not important and why.
This training will enable staff to contact the correct people inside and outside the
organization when an incident occurs.
Phishing awareness — Continuously reinforcing phishing awareness training and
giving users an easy way to report suspicious messages helps to detect phishing
campaigns early. Organizations should have processes for swift response and
containment if a user executes a malicious payload.