Background
The Winnti umbrella and closely associated entities has been active since at least
2009, with some reports of possible activity as early as 2007. The term "umbrella" is
used in this report because current intelligence indicates that the overarching entity
consists of multiple teams/actors whose tactics, techniques, and procedures align,
and whose infrastructure and operations overlap. We assess that the different
stages of associated attacks are operated by separate teams/actors, however in
this report we will show that the lines between them are blurred and that they are
all associated with the same greater entity. The Winnti and Axiom group names
were created by Kaspersky Lab and Symantec, respectively, for their 2013/2014
reports on the original group. The name “Winnti” is now primarily used to refer to a
custom backdoor used by groups under the umbrella. Multiple sources of public and
private threat intelligence have their own names for individual teams. For example,
LEAD is a common alias for the group targeting online gaming, telecom, and high
tech organizations. Other aliases for groups related include BARIUM, Wicked
Panda, GREF, PassCV, and others. This report details how these groups are linked
together and serve a broader attacker mission. The many names associated with
actors in the greater intelligence mission are due to the fact that they are built on
telemetry of the intelligence provider which is typically unique and dependent on
their specific dataset. This report focuses heavily on networking related telemetry.
4
We assess with high confidence that the attackers discussed here are associated
with the Chinese state intelligence apparatus. This assessment is based on attacker
TTPs, observed attack infrastructure, and links to previously published intelligence.
Their operations against gaming and technology organizations are believed to be
economically motivated in nature. However, based on the findings shared in this
report we assess with high confidence that the actor’s primary long-term mission is
politically focused. It’s important to note that not all publicly reported operations
related to Chinese intelligence are tracked or linked to this group of actors. However,
TTPs, infrastructure, and tooling show some overlap with other Chinese-speaking
threat actors, suggesting that the Chinese intelligence community shares human
and technological resources across organizations. We assess with medium to high
confidence that the various operations described in this report are the work of
individual teams, including contractors external to the Chinese government, with
varying levels of expertise, cooperating on a specific agenda.
In 2015 the People’s Liberation Army of China (PLA) began a major reorganization
which included the creation of the Strategic Support Force (SSF / PLASSF). SSF is
responsible for space, cyber, and electronic warfare missions. Some of the overlap
we observed from groups could potentially be related to this reorganization.
Notably, key incident details below include attacker mistakes that likely reveal the
true location of some attackers as the Xicheng District of Beijing.
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs):
Though the TTPs of the attacking teams vary depending on the operation, their use
of overlapping resources presents a common actor profile. Key interests during
attacks often include the theft of code signing certificates, source code, and internal
technology documentation. They also may attempt to manipulate virtual economies
for financial gain. While unconfirmed, the financial secondary objective may be
related to personal interests of the individuals behind the attacks.
Initial attack methods include phishing to gain entry into target organization
networks. The group then follows with custom malware or publicly available
offensive tooling (Metasploit/Cobalt Strike), and may use a number of methods to
minimize their risk of being detected. Such techniques include a particular focus on
“living off the land” by using a victim's own software products, approved remote
access systems, or system administration tools for spreading and maintaining
unauthorized access to the network.
We have observed incidents where the attacker used other victim organizations as
a proxy for unauthorized remote access. In these cases, organization 1 had been
compromised for a long period of time, and the attacker accessed victim
organization 2 via the organization 1 network.
5
Delivery and C2 domains routinely have subdomains which resemble target
organizations. Additionally, their C2 domains are used across many targets, while
subdomains tend to be created and removed quickly and are unique to a particular
target or campaign. Also noteworthy is that the actors set their domains to resolve
to 127.0.0.1 when not in use, similar to what was originally reported on by
Kaspersky Lab (see below).
The actor often uses TLS encryption for varying aspects of C2 and malware delivery.
As noted in the “Infrastructure Analysis” section of this report, the actor primarily
abuses Let’s Encrypt to sign SSL certificates. We also observed many cases in
which self-signed certificates were used in attacks.
Overall, the Winnti umbrella and linked groups are lacking when it comes to
operational security. However, some activities linked to these groups follow better
operational security and infrastructure management approaches. This may be a clue
to the division of responsibilities by team and skill level within the broader
organization.
Targets:
The Winnti umbrella and linked groups’ initial targets are gaming studios and high
tech businesses. They primarily seek code signing certificates and software
manipulation, with potential financially motivated secondary objectives. These
targets have been identified in the United States, Japan, South Korea, and China.
Based on the infrastructure, links to previous reporting, and recently observed
attacks, the broader organization’s main targets are political. Historically this has
included Tibetan and Chinese journalists, Uyghur and Tibetan activists, the
government of Thailand, and prominent international technology organizations.
One example of a politically focused lure by the Winnti umbrella and linked groups is
an end of 2017 document titled “Resolution 2375 (2017) Strengthening Sanctions
on DPR of KOREA” which is a malicious file associated with the C2 infrastructure
described here - see MD5: 3b58e122d9e17121416b146daab4db9d.
6
​ ​
​ ​
​ ​
​
Some Key Public Reports:
2013​:
Kaspersky Lab publicly reported ​on the original Winnti group​, technical details
around the ​Winnti samples​, and ​various honeypot analysis methods​. Most
noteworthy is the Winnti umbrella’s targeting of gaming organizations in search of
code signing certificates, virtual currencies, and updating mechanisms which could
potentially be used to attack victims’ clients. Interestingly, this was the first
identified trojan for the 64-bit Microsoft Windows operating system with a valid
digital signature as noted by the author. The abuse of signed applications is a very
effective attack approach that the entity continues to use.
2014​:
Novetta released an ​outstanding report detailing “Operation SMN,”​ in which they
collaborated with a number of private organizations on a large scale malware
eradication operation which is linked to the original Winnti group by the malware
being delivered. In the report, the actor is named Axiom. Novetta reported links to
publications from as far back as 2009 that also link the group to the Chinese state
intelligence apparatus with high confidence. Links exist to various known attacks
and actor groups, such as “Operation Aurora,” Elderwood Group’s successful 2010
attack against Google and many other organizations. Another link exists to the
successful compromise of the security organization ​Bit9 in 2013​, where their own
product was used to sign and spread malware to their customers. In addition,
’ “
FireEye s Operation DeputyDog​” detailed attacks on Japanese targets from the
same attack infrastructure. Many other incidents are detailed in the Operation SMN
report. Following all of these details back in time, we can see an overlap in TTPs and
7
targets from the ​APT1 report by Mandiant​, which serves as a great historical
example of Chinese intelligence cyber operations in their most basic form.
2016​:
Cylance ​released a blog post​ reporting on digitally signed malware used in targeted
attacks against gaming organizations in China, Taiwan, South Korea, Europe,
Russia, and the United States. Cylance refers to the attacking entity as “PassCV” in
their reporting. Cylance successfully identified a large quantity of malware binaries
which were signed with valid certificates stolen from a number of gaming studios in
East Asia. In addition to detailing the individual certificates and signed malware,
they identified a significant amount of network infrastructure which contain various
interesting links to our own findings.
2017 - March/April​:
Trend Micro reported ​on attacks that abused GitHub for use in malware command
and control, which they attributed to the original Winnti group. Amusingly, Trend
Micro later reported on an individual linked to the group and the attacks ​who
happens to be a fan of pigs​.
2017 - July 5th​:
Citizen Lab reported​ on attacks against journalists by an actor mimicking
China-focused news organizations HK01, Epoch Times, Mingjing News, and Bowen
Press. As Citizen Lab noted, these news organizations are blocked in China for their
political views. The report notes that malware used in these attacks was linked to a
stolen code signing certificate mentioned in the Cylance PassCV post. That overlap,
in addition to infrastructure links from ​a Palo Alto Unit 42 blog post​, strongly links
this attack to the previously mentioned reports as well as to our own. As Unit 42
reports, the attacks against entities in the government of Thailand used the
“bookworm” trojan.
2017 - July/October​:
ProtectWise 401TRG published our own findings​ and ​an update​ on LEAD using
open source and public tooling in attacks against Japanese gaming organizations.
These attacks are linked with high confidence to ongoing operations in the United
States and East Asia.
Other Noteworthy Events​:
In 2017, multiple supply-chain attacks occurred which had some similarities to the
Winnti umbrella and associated entities. For example, ​Kaspersky reported on
ShadowPad​, a large-scale compromise of NetSarang, which resembles the Winnti
and PlugX malware. In addition, ​Kaspersky​ and ​Intezer​ identified notable code
similarities to the Winnti umbrella and APT17 in the compromise of Piriform, which
8
allowed attackers to sign and spread altered versions of the CCleaner software to a
large customer base.