2.5 Content extraction from live systems
The Cisco devices implement advanced management capabilities through the serial console, allowing not only
to change the configuration settings but also explore the available file systems. This was leveraged as a noninvasive method of extracting contents – we did not know in advance whether raw filesystem data extracted
from Flash ICs could actually be used with non-Cisco systems, for example, mounted in Linux.
This stage followed directly after boot log acquisition, and leveraged the console access to explore, and tried to
discover and back-up any interesting files present on the local filesystems. Unless a standard filesystem is used,
extracting files from a raw Flash image is usually significantly harder than copying those off the device when it is
powered on.
The devices store the application software image in a file located in the main flash: file system. Therefore, it
was relatively easy to obtain a copy of the software being executed on counterfeit devices. The fact that the
units stopped working after a software update, yet still reported the updated version during the boot, can be
considered evidence that no hidden software copy was present elsewhere on the system.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 13
PUBLIC
The downloaded software image could then be verified from the unit by obtaining a legitimate copy of the same
software version from the manufacturer and comparing SHA256 hashes.
The hashes were found to match; no changes were made to the software image stored on the counterfeit unit.
This meant it was highly likely application software was patched in memory after load.
However, some information of potential interest is rarely stored in file systems. For example, boot loader
programs, or bootloaders, are rarely present there and are typically stored in "raw" form directly in Flash
memory. The only way to gain access to this code is through extraction of raw Flash memory content followed
by analysis of whatever content was actually extracted.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 14
PUBLIC