The Mattermost Attacker’s Server
While analyzing the new SLUB variant, we noticed that the communication with Mattermost needed an
authentication token with certain levels of permissions to, for example, create channels and send posts
to those channels. The authentication token or bearer is sent as part of the HTTP header.
19 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
Figure 26. The Mattermost authentication token
As mentioned earlier, during the communication with the C&C Mattermost server, two important parameters
are fixed in the SLUB samples:


The bearer


Team name: ZM


That means the attacker may release sample variants using different Team names and bearers, depending
on the campaigns. Knowing this information will allow us to take a closer look at the activities of the
campaign.
To learn more about the attacker’s infrastructure, we reviewed the Mattermost API to understand how
much information about the attacker we can get if we use the same Mattermost bearer that the SLUB
sample used to connect to the server.
Because we did not know ahead of time that all the permissions the bearer has on the server is required,
we tried to perform API by API calls until we had a rough idea of what was needed. After a few tries, we
were able to extract the following data from the Mattermost server:


The list of channels.


The dump of all posts in each channel


The dump of all screenshots in each channel


The list of all users associated with the channels


20 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
This is a lot of information to talk about, so we are going to mention only the important parts.
As mentioned earlier, the campaign data indicates that two vectors are being used; one was using the
PowerShell script while the other used the Chrome exploit shellcode to deploy the samples. In the
Powershell vector, we discovered another Team name: MIN
Figure 27. The Team name: MIN
We were able to extract all the listed artifacts from both channels.
Here are the descriptions of some of the captured artifacts.