Data theft creates a secondary extortion market
Until this year, conventional wisdom among security companies that had any experience at all with
ransomware ran quite uniformly: Lock down obvious ingress methods, such as internet-facing RDP ports;
keep good offline backups; and deal with infections of small, innocuous malware such as Dridex or Emotet
quickly, before they can deliver the killing payload.
Several high-profile ransom attacks, for instance, against school districts across the US, failed at least in
part because the IT managers had maintained an unaffected backup of critical data.
As a countermeasure to their victims’ preparedness, several ransomware families picked up on a side
hustle designed to increase pressure on their victims to pay the ransom – even if every backup with
essential data was safe. Not only would they hold the machines hostage, but they would steal the data on
those machines and threaten to release it to the world if the targets fail to pay a bounty.
Over the past half year, Sophos analysts observed that ransomware adversaries have settled on a common
(and slowly growing) toolset they use to exfiltrate data from a victim’s network. This toolset of well
known, legitimate utilities anyone might have won’t be detected by endpoint security products. The list of
ransomware families that engage in this practice continues to grow, and now includes Doppelpaymer, REvil,
Clop, DarkSide, Netwalker, Ragnar Locker, and Conti, among many others. The attackers operate “leaks”
sites, where they publicize what data they’ve stolen; REvil allows anyone to buy the data from them right
from its website.
November 2020 5
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
The criminals use the toolset to copy sensitive internal information, compress it into an archive, and
transfer it out of the network – and out of reach of the victim. These are some of the tools we’ve seen used,
so far:
Ì Total Commander (file manager with built-in FTP Client)
Ì 7zip (Archive creation software)
Ì WinRAR (Archive creation software)
Ì psftp (PuTTY’s SFTP client)
Ì Windows cURL
When it comes to data theft, the attackers are far less picky and exfiltrate entire folders, regardless of the
file types that are contained within. (Ransomware typically prioritizes the encryption portion of the attack to
key file types and excludes many others.)
Size doesn’t matter. They don’t seem to care about the amount of data targeted for exfiltration. Directory
structures are unique to each business, and some file types can be compressed better than others. We
have seen as little as 5 GB, and as much as 400 GB, of compressed data being stolen from a victim prior to
deployment of the ransomware.
Fiig.1. In October, 2020, the Doppelpaymer ransomware leaks page revealed that the attackers had struck the networks of Hall County, Georgia. The leak
included a reference to a file called “elections” which included sample ballot proofs for the state primary elections in 2020 and lists of poll workers and their
phone numbers from the 2018 elections, among other sensitive files. The Associated Press reported that the ransomware encrypted the signature verification
database the county uses to validate ballots. Source: SophosLabs.
November 2020 6
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
The criminals typically send the exfiltrated data to legitimate cloud storage services, which make this
activity harder to spot, since these are common, ordinary network traffic destinations. For attackers, the
following three cloud storage services have been the most popular go-to for storing exfiltrated data:
Ì Google Drive
Ì Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service)
Ì Mega.nz
Ì Private FTP servers
In a final act of destruction, ransomware attackers increasingly hunt for the local servers that contain
backups of critical data; when found, they delete (or independently encrypt) these backups just before the
network-wide encryption attack.
It’s more important than ever to store a backup of key data offline. If they can find it, the ransomware
criminals will destroy it.