45
Timelines and activity patterns
The earliest sample of Inception-related malware we have been able to obtain,
was submitted to us in June 2014. However, decoy document metadata shows
that it was created late May. The related cloud account was created just before
that. An examination of the other documents associated with the attacks show
that they have been created at a steady pace all through summer and autumn
2014 and attacks are still ongoing.
Of interest is also the attackers’ activity patterns over the 24h cycle. The main
upload of new components to shares seems to be divided over two high–activity
periods: 6:00 -10:00 UTC and 17:00 - 21:00 UTC. No uploads were seen
between 23:00 and 05:00 UTC.
It is however doubtful how indicative these timeframes are. To illustrate, we
looked into another and more obscure timing factor: The timing of the AES
InitVector random seeds. A random seed is the initial value passed into a
pseudo-randomizer function. The malware uses the random output to create
what is known as an InitVector - a starting point for the AES
encryption/decryption function.
The code used in some of the DLLs indicate that the attackers tend to use the C
time() function to generate random seeds. This function returns values of
granularity down to seconds. Thus random seeds, and ultimately the InitVectors,
are functions of these quite coarse units of time.
The encrypted files uploaded to the WebDAV shares come with their InitVectors
stored at the end of the file. Since we know the time window to be within a few
days of the upload time we were able to brute force the time values that would
generate the corresponding InitVectors. Thus, we were able to say to the second
when the file was created – and most times were identified to be in the range
1500 - 2200 GMT.
Unfortunately, we had to reject these data. The file creation times turned out to
be hours after the files themselves were uploaded to the WebDAV share. Either
the attackers’ system clock is wrong or a fixed offset is added to the random
seed. Either way, the data can’t be trusted; and shows that nothing can be taken
at face value.