4.1 Infrastructure schema
Our investigation allowed us to draw a network schema of the attackers’ infrastructure.
Figure 2: Network schema
The infected machines communicate with the proxy through the Internet. The proxy server will
forward the network packets to the Poison Ivy server. The proxy feature is done by an executable
called xport.exe. This executable can encode network traffic using a xor operation. This feature
requires having the executable running on both machines: the proxy and the Poison Ivy server.
The syntax on the proxy server is:
```
xport.exe Proxy_ip proxy_port Poison_Ivy_ip Poison_Ivy_port number
```
The argument number can either be set to 1 or 2 and represents the two different encoding keys.
The syntax on the Poison Ivy server is:
Ref. RAP002_APT1_Technical_backstage.1.0 Version 1.0 Page 12 of 48
Type Public document
Project APT1: technical backstage
Title malware analysis
Classification Public
The Poison Ivy server is managed by the attackers through a VMWare remote desktop, so that we
were not able to get the real IP address of the attacker. During our investigation, we identified an
established Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) connection between the Poison Ivy server and the
proxy server. We decided to install a key-logger on the Poison Ivy server that allowed us to see
credentials to remotely connect to the proxy server.
Since the attackers use RDP to manage the proxy server and that we had access, we copied the
Windows event logs. Those logs contained all IPs which established a successful RDP
authentication. We identified more than 350 unique IPs:
We suppose that this list also contains Poison Ivy servers IPs and maybe IPs of attackers who
inadvertently connect directly to the proxy).
Here is the screenshot of the proxy RDP authentication:
Figure 3: Proxy server login window
Here is the screenshot of the Poison Ivy interface:
Figure 4: Poison Ivy interface with the list of connected machines
Ref. RAP002_APT1_Technical_backstage.1.0 Version 1.0 Page 13 of 48
Type Public document
Project APT1: technical backstage
Title malware analysis
Classification Public
Here is the screenshot of an attacker using a remote shell to an infected target:
Figure 5: Poison Ivy interface with a shell
Using those accesses, we managed to exfiltrate a massive amount of files, event logs, netstat
outputs… The interesting information can be divided in two categories:


Information about the tools used by the attackers;


Information about the targets.


Ref. RAP002_APT1_Technical_backstage.1.0 Version 1.0 Page 14 of 48
Type Public document
Project APT1: technical backstage
Title malware analysis
Classification Public