Malicious Emails
The first intercepted malicious email had “markvanschaick.nl @qixnig .com” as a sender
address. The specific name has been likely chosen by the attacker to try to exploit the
Dutch marine service company reputation “Mark Van Schaick”, but sender’s domain and ip
address shown no direct relationship to that organisation.
Figure 1. SMTP header details of wave 1
The message has been sent from a
Roundcube webmail server hosted on lord.
vivawebhost .com (173.237.190.12 COLO4-BLK7 US) and apparently unrelated to the
sender’s domain. Moreover, “qixnig .com” (sender domain name) resolves to a different
IP address reachable at 66.45.243.148 (INTERSERVER US). It’s interesting to figure out
the crafted redirection applied to any visiting users: a HTTP 301 code redirecting to the
Dan Marine Group’s official web portal.
1/7
Figure 2. Redirection to the Dan Marine web portal
The second email campaign was slightly different respect to the first one. It was
originated by another Roundcube webmail service hosted at mail.dbweb .se (52.58.78.16
AT-88-Z US):
Figure 3. SMTP header details of wave 2
In this case the fake communication process
mimics the interaction between “ Naviera Ulises Ltd supplie@ulisnav.gr ” and “ Evripidis
Mareskas (Mr)  ”. The extracted domain r happens to be
“kiramko .com” and it resolved to the same remote ip address discovered in the first
campaign wave (“qixnig .com”, 66.45.243.148 INTERSERVER US). Those campaigns could
be considered as closely correlated. The “ulisnav .gr” appears to be unregistered at time
of writing.
The intercepted emails come up with a carefully prepared phishing scheme, definitely
targeting the italian naval sector. The observed chunks of headers and the network
context shown the attacker tried to impersonate known vendors of marine parts and naval
services in order to lure victims to open up the attached documents.
For example the first two detected
attempts tried to mimic inquiries from
the Chinese Dan Marine Group,
pretending to validate the sender’s
domain “qixnig .com” as legibly owned
by the group. It then tried to redirect
visitors to the Dan Marine official website. Another intercepted email inserted the victim
as BCC into a fake communication between the tech support of the greek Naviera Ulises
Ltd and one of its employer (data publicly available on linkedin).
No one of these communications appear to be real and legitim, indeed the intercepted
data does not suggest the attacker has any kind of access to real assets.