A. Scope of work
Our work comprised three focus areas as follows:
• Focus area 1: Review of the technical
investigation and response to the Conti Incident
• Focus area 2: Review the organisation-wide
preparedness and strategic response
• Focus area 3: Review the preparedness of the
HSE to manage cyber risks
Focus area 1
In this area, we reviewed the technical response
to the Incident and the subsequent recovery and
investigation activities undertaken by the HSE.
Key considerations included the effectiveness of
the response and recovery, the sufficiency of the
investigation to support the conclusions made, and
the ability of the HSE to detect and prevent similar
incidents in the future. To achieve this we separated
our review into nine phases - in each phase we did a
deep dive into specific areas of interest:
• Review of relevant documentation including daily
incident SITREPs, investigation reports, RAID logs
and recovery plans;
• Interviews with key stakeholders that were
involved in the response, investigation and
recovery to understand key information, including
preparedness, the timeline of events, roles and
responsibilities, and decision making;
• Interviews with contacts at the HSE’s Incident
Response provider to review their technical reporting;
• Interviews with technical teams to understand
the Cyber Security controls that were in place at
the time of Incident and assess these against our
ransomware vulnerability framework;
• Review of documentation and interviews to
understand HSE’s network and AD structure,
including the architecture of the NHN;
• A deep-dive into the recovery of specific
applications and organisations, including
statutory hospitals, voluntary hospitals and CHOs,
including the adequacy of disaster recovery
capabilities to contribute to operational readiness
for a cyber attack;
• Review of Cyber Security improvements planned
or implemented during the Incident to assess
whether they would likely prevent a similar
Incident reoccurring.
Focus Area 2
In this area, we reviewed the organisation-wide
preparedness and strategic response to the Incident.
The work comprised three phases as follows: Crisis
Preparedness, Crisis Response, and Crisis Recovery.
The first phase focused on Crisis Preparedness with
the following objectives:
• Assess the governance in place at HSE for risk,
clinical and services continuity, incident and crisis
management;
• Assess whether robust emergency, incident and
crisis plans were in place prior to the Incident at
strategic, tactical and operational level with clear
roles and responsibilities per team/stakeholder;
• Assess whether robust BCM plans were in place
prior to the Incident at strategic, tactical and
operational level;
• Assess whether crisis communications plans were
in place at HSE and CHO/hospital (group) level;
• Understand the level of security and crisis
awareness, training and exercising pre-Incident;
• Assess whether lessons learned from previous
large scale incidents or emergencies (e.g nurses’
strike, COVID-19 response) were applied to the
Conti response.
The second phase focused on Crisis Response with
the following objectives:
• Assess whether effective and organised response
structures were defined and implemented, when
and by whom;
• Identify whether an effective operating rhythm,
matching the pace of the crisis, was set and
followed to ensure command, control and
coordination was continuously achieved
throughout the response;
• Identify whether information and data was shared
effectively across workstreams and up to the HSE
NCMT to inform understanding of clinical and
operational impacts;
• Assess whether leadership established an agreed
overarching response and recovery strategy,
guided by clear values and response principles;
• Assess whether decisions were made effectively
based on a situational assessment;
• Understand the impact of the prevailing HSE
emergency response culture on the crisis response.
103 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
The third phase focused on Crisis Recovery with the
following objectives:
• Assess whether leadership established a recovery
strategy/plan;
• Assess whether recovery plan was aligned with
existing clinical and services continuity, disaster
recovery and risk management processes;
• Assess whether business/corporate/clinical
priorities drove recovery plan;
• Determine the extent to which workarounds
implemented at local hospital, HGO and CHO
level were appropriate; and how this ability was
impacted based on organisational preparedness
and culture;
• Understand the long term impacts of the event on
clinical activities, operations and staff wellbeing;
• Understand the planned changes in processes
and culture driven by this event and how they
align with HSE’s organisational strategy.
Focus area 3
In this area, we conducted a review of the HSE’s
current cyber security capabilities from a strategic
and operational perspective. Our objective
was to determine the level of preparedness in
the HSE’s technical capability and operational
resilience (including clinical and services continuity
management planning) in terms of managing
cybersecurity risk. To do this, we:
• Examined the appropriateness of any technical
controls implemented and the likelihood
they would prevent this or a similar Incident
reoccurring. Specifically, in the area of Identity
and Access Management, Data Protection and
Content Control;
• Assessed IT response in terms of how it
empowered the organisation-wide response and,
the structuring and management of the recovery
of applications supporting key patient care
services in the HSE, hospitals, and CHOs;
• Assessed if lessons learnt have been
implemented from this and other incidents, and
have these been shared with State and non-State
organisations to inform future preparedness;
• Determined if there were organisational, cultural
or behavioural root causes in the IT areas that
could be identified so that we could provide an
informed view on the improvements the HSE
should consider to improve its Cyber Security
posture and prevent similar Incidents occurring
again.
Scope exclusions
• We did not perform validation of the
documentation provided to us.
• We did not conduct any testing of the operating
effectiveness of controls.
• During our historic review of the Incident and
HSE’s structure, processes and infrastructure, the
maximum period we looked back is five years.
• As the remediation work was ongoing during our
review, we analysed the activity that had taken
place up to 31 July 2021.
• We have performed a cyber preparedness
assessment based on PwC’s NIST CSF and
COBIT Frameworks. We conducted this review
based on the ten key areas we identified,
using the above Frameworks. We note that an
organisation-wide NIST assessment has not been
fully completed to date by the HSE.
• We have not validated the work performed as
part of any previous information security audits or
related work on which the HSE historically made
decisions.
• We have only reviewed how the HSE’s strategy
was informed by advice provided by third parties
and how the HSE’s response strategy allowed
for effective coordination of third parties. We
reviewed the effectiveness of third parties’
response and recovery efforts.
• While we have identified learnings from this
Incident which may apply to other major risks
and incidents that could cause major business
disruption to the HSE, we have not performed a
full evaluation of other risks that HSE may face.
• While we have reviewed the HSE’s clinical
and services continuity plans, structures and
processes; the scope of our review did not
include preparing a new clinical and services
continuity plan.
104 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.