Duqu/ DQ
Duqu was discovered on September 1, 2011 by CrySyS Lab of the Budapest University of
Technology and Economics in Hungary. The code of the malware is very similar to Stuxnet and
it is believed to be either the product of a sister-project or a derivative of the Stuxnet source
code. In particular, the kernel driver of the malware is practically the same as the kernel driver
of Stuxnet (commonly named JMINET.SYS and MRXCLS.SYS respectively). The former case
implies that the malware was developed and deployed by a state sponsor, likely the United
States or Israel. Meanwhile, the latter case expands attribution to practically any well
resourced actor on the internet.
Unlike Stuxnet, Duqu was not meant to sabotage the host systems; instead, like most
modern malware, its purpose was covert information exfiltration. The Duqu malware was
found on similar target systems as Stuxnet, so it is reasonable to conclude that it was likely
developed and deployed to collect information pertinent to current events or information
necessary to launch future espionage or sabotage campaigns. Duqu primarily targeted the
industrial infrastructure of system manufacturers, and the industrial sector in Middle Eastern
countries. The adversary exfiltrates confidential documents such as design specifications and
network information, likely to aid in future attack campaigns.
The original Duqu components exploited a zero-day Microsoft Windows 32k TrueType
font vulnerability (CVE-2011-3402). The vulnerability permits the attacker to execute code at
the highest privilege level. A portion of the malware, dubbed the “Duqu framework” by
Kaspersky, appears to be written in C with a custom object oriented framework and compiled
60
in Microsoft Visual Studio 2008. Duqu consists of an installer, a driver file, a DLL with
embedded files, and a configuration file. The installer registers the driver as a service that
starts at system initialization. The driver injects the DLL into the Windows process services.exe.
From there, the DLL extracts the other components and injects them into other Windows
processes. Sometimes the driver file is signed with a valid digital certificate to avoid detection.
Duqu was typically configured to run on an infected machine for 30-36 days. Unlike
Stuxnet (a worm), Duqu (a Trojan) does not replicate and spread on its own. It only spreads
through additional breaches and targeted installation. In service to its espionage function,
Duqu’s components mostly log keystrokes and system information. According to Kaspersky
Lab, the Duqu operators were particularly intent on collecting passwords, stealing documents,
and taking desktop screenshots The Infostealer component collects information and then
stores it in a local encrypted and compressed file. At regular intervals or upon request, the file
is attached to a dummy .jpeg file and uploaded from the infected host.
Duqu communicates with its C2C infrastructure through HTTP(s). Each attack, in at least
eight different countries, used a different C&C server. The servers, likely proxies, forwarded all
port 80 and port 443 traffic to other servers, which in turn forwarded traffic to other servers,
and so on. The servers also contained at least three different DLLs and the infostealer
component used to collect information from the infected hosts. Most of the known
infrastructure went inactive when the malware was exposed.
In late 2015, Kaspersky reported the reemergence of the Duqu malware, targeting
western countries as well as the Middle East and Asia. Many of the targets were affiliated with
the P5+1 events and venues associated with the Iran nuclear deal negotiations. An event
honoring the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau may also have been
targeted. The recent attacks leveraged new 0-day exploits including CVE-2015-2360, which
targets the Windows kernel. Duqu 2.0 runs as kernel level code. The updated malware survives
in the system memory of infected servers and re-downloads onto desirable hosts upon reboot.
Duqu 2.0 was built on top of the original code; however, it now loads from an MSI file, and has
at least 94 more plugins. The known plugins allow the adversary to customize the toolkit to the
target environment to circumvent system security and incompatibilities. Newer components
appear to be written in the C++ programming language.
It is unclear if the new version is deployed by the original team. Strings in the code
suggest that the malware was developed by English speakers; however, a few minor spelling
errors could suggest the involvement of non-native speakers. Additionally, Kaspersky observed
a target system that was infected by both Duqu 2.0 and Equation group malware. This
suggests a lack of coordination and possibly competing interests. Since the source code of
61
Duqu was never made public, the revised version had to have been developed by the one of
the original authors. If Duqu was developed by both the United States and Israel, and if
Equation Group is not coordinating with Duqu, then one could postulate that Duqu 2.0 was
developed by the Israeli development team in an effort to gain information about the US-Iran
nuclear negotiations. Other explanations exist.