Real satellite links, MitM attacks or BGP hĳacking?
Purchasing satellite­based Internet links is one of the
options APT groups can choose to secure their C&C
traffic. However, full duplex satellite links can be very
expensive: a simple duplex 1Mbit up/down satellite link
may cost up to $7000 per week. For longer term contracts
this cost may decrease considerably, but the bandwidth
still remains very expensive.
Another way of getting a C&C server into a satellite’s IP
range is to hijack the network traffic between the victim
and the satellite operator and to inject packets along the
way. This requires either exploitation of the satellite
provider itself, or of another ISP on the way.
These kinds of hijacking attacks have been observed in
the past and were documented by Renesys (now part of
Dyn) in a blogpost dated November 2013.
According to Renesys: “Various providers’ BGP routes
were hijacked, and as a result a portion of their Internet
traffic was misdirected to flow through Belarusian and
Icelandic ISPs. We have BGP routing data that show the
second­by­second evolution of 21 Belarusian events in
February and May 2013, and 17 Icelandic events in July­
August 2013.”
In a more recent blogpost from 2015, Dyn researchers
https://securelist.com/blog/research/72081/satellite-turla-apt-command-and-control-in-the-sky/ 4/17
2015/10/28 Satellite Turla: APT Command and Control in the Sky - Securelist
point out that: “For security analysts reviewing alert logs, it
is important to appreciate that the IP addresses identified
as the source of incidents can and are regularly spoofed.
For example, an attack that appeared to come from a
Comcast IP located in New Jersey may really have been
from a hijacker located in Eastern Europe, briefly
commandeering Comcast IP space. It is interesting to note
that all six cases discussed above were conducted from
either Europe or Russia.”
Obviously, such incredibly apparent and large­scale
attacks have little chance of surviving for long periods of
time, which is one of the key requirements for running an
APT operation. It is therefore not very feasible to perform
the attack through MitM traffic hijacking, unless the
attackers have direct control over some high­traffic
network points, such as backbone routers or fiber optics.
There are signs that such attacks are becoming more
common, but there is a much simpler way to hijack
satellite­based Internet traffic.