Animal Farm
Animal Farm is the first French speaking APT detected. It is worth noting that French is
the official language of 29 countries. According to slides referencing Operation Snowglobe,
released by Edward Snowden and Der Spiegel in January 2015, Animal Farm is a cyber threat
group sponsored by France. The group is suspected to be a component of the French
Directorate-General for External Security (DGES), which is France’s external intelligence agency.
The group began development of its toolkit in 2007 and it has been actively launching attack
campaigns since 2009. The purpose of the group is to conduct cyberespionage and denial of
service campaigns against political targets using traditional cyber-attack vectors, 0-day exploits,
and a custom multitier malware platform.
Animal Farm targets government entities, activists, private companies, journalists,
media outlets, and defense contractors in Syria, Iran, Malaysia, the United States, China,
Turkey, the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain, and Russia with spear phishing and watering
hole attacks.
The Animal Farm trojans can be grouped into six families. The NBot malware is a
standard botnet kit capable of enslaving systems and leveraging their resources in aggregate to
conduct DDoS attacks. The EvilBunny trojan and its variants are validator trojans that were used
in spear phishing attacks in 2011. The trojans were delivered through malicious PDF files
through the 0-day exploitation of a vulnerability in Adobe reader. The trojan checks whether an
emulator is running, what directory it is running from, whether its payload timestamp has been
changed, and what time the API hook was detected. Bunny is designed as an execution
platform for the attacker to inject Lua scripts into victim system processes.
The Casper and Tafacalou trojan families are also validator trojans. Casper is designed to
persist and to track victim online activity. Casper is delivered via watering-hole attacks while
Tafacalou may be delivered through spear phishing or watering-hole attacks. The Tafacalou
malware is the used to deliver either the Dino espionage platform or the Babar espionage
platform onto the victim host.
Babar is a spyware toolkit capable of logging keystrokes, monitoring web activity, taking
screenshots, capturing audio, copying clipboard data and eavesdropping on online
conversations that are conducted over popular messaging platforms (Skype, MSN, Yahoo
messenger, etc.). Babar obfuscates its activity by hooking into the APIs of remote processes
59
through a series of named pipes. Babar may have been used to spy on Iranian nuclear research
facilities and European financial institutions.
Dino is a modular malware capable of executing C2C commands and Windows batch
commands, searching for specific files, uploading and downloading files from the C2C
infrastructure, scheduling its own command executions, killing processes, and removing itself
from the victim system. The PSM module is the encrypted on-disk copy of Dino’s components.
The CORE module stores configuration and the ENVVAR module stores environment variables.
The CRONTAB module schedules tasks. Meanwhile, the CMDEXECQ module stores the queue
of commands executed by the CMDEXEC component. Finally, the FMGR module manages file
uploads and downloads.