Elusive malware
Ransomware is predictably the most popular type of malware. Its share, among
other malware used in attacks on organizations, increased by seven percentage
points compared to Q4 2020 and is now 63%. Emailing remains the prevailing
method of delivering malware: attackers used it in six out of ten malware attacks
on organizations. Individuals are still most often attacked by banking trojans,
spyware, and malware that provides remote access to the device.
7
63%
Ransomware
RATs
Spyware
~~2~~ 0%
21%
16%
16%
Loaders
28%
30%
Banking trojans
7%
Miners
9%
Adware
Other 2%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Attacks on organizations Attacks on individuals
Figure 7. Types of malware (percentage of malware attacks)
© Positive Technologies
Email
4% 13% 36%
1% 1%
61%
7% Compromise of computers, servers,
and network equipment
in attacks in attacks
Fake updates
on organizations on individuals
7%
Fake updates
Websites
9% 31%
Figure 8. Methods used for malware distribution
Official app stores
Messengers and SMS messages
Other
© Positive Technologies
Malware developers continue to look for new ways of bypassing security measures.
To achieve that goal, attackers, for example, use unpopular programming
languages, as in the case of BazarBackdoor (RAT), which was rewritten in Nim;
the ransomware operators of Vovalex and RobbinHood chose such uncommon
languages as D and Golang, respectively, from the get-go.
Some attackers have upgraded their tools with features that erase traces of
malicious activity—as seen in such miners as OSAMiner, Black-T and Pro-Ocean.
The code of the OSAMiner cryptominer, which targets macOS-based devices,
contains a function that allows killing the Activity Monitor process, along with other
monitoring and antimalware tools. Activity Monitor is the Mac equivalent of Task
Manager. The Black-T miner, which targets Unix systems, clears bash history after
8
deploying its payload and erases all traces of its own activity. The added openly
accessible function for hiding the process is called libprocesshider; if detected, it
may lead security experts to assume the presence of a malicious load. This tool is
also used by attackers who distribute the Pro-Ocean miner, which attacks Apache
ActiveMQ, Oracle WebLogic, and Redis servers, and checks the target environment
before installation. At this stage, it determines whether to hide the malware, and
if, for example, the malware finds itself in the Tencent Cloud or Alibaba Cloud
environment, it starts the process of deleting monitoring agents.
Another way to hide the destructive load is to split the malware into archives. An
example is the Masslogger trojan designed to collect credentials. Attackers use email
to deliver the malware, and to bypass the security measures, they split the executable
file into multivolume archives with such extensions as .r00, .r01, and so on.
Having analyzed the latest attacks by the RTM APT group, the PT ESC team found
that the attackers were using packers as a service to bypass security tools. This
approach greatly complicates a search for known signatures, but behavioral
analysis of files in the sandbox allows detecting malicious activity. In addition, the
use of cryptors does not affect interaction between the malware and management
servers, which means that they can be detected by analyzing network traffic.
A cryptor (packer)
Is a program that uses cryptographic methods to package malware in order
to hide it from security tools during signature analysis.
Figure 9. Phishing email from the RTM group that mimics a warning from bailiffs
9
Since the beginning of 2021, RTM has added the Quoter ransomware to their
arsenal. According to researchers, if the banking trojan has failed to complete its
tasks and collect information from the infected host, the attackers launch Quoter
onto the company's network as Plan B. Following the example of other ransomware
operators, RTM employs the strategy of double extortion in their attacks. The
group still uses social engineering methods as the main method of delivery, sending
phishing emails to victims.
The group's activity in Q1 2021 decreased compared to Q4 2020, but this may
indicate that the attackers are busy developing new attack techniques or refining
existing tools for now.