Threat
Ransomware actors are targeting companies involved in significant, time-sensitive financial
events to incentivize ransom payment by these victims. Ransomware is often a two-stage
process beginning with an initial intrusion through a trojan malware, which allows an access
broker to perform reconnaissance and determine how to best monetize the access. However,
while this malware is often mass distributed, most victims of trojans are not also victims of
ransomware, indicating ransomware targets are often carefully selected from a pool based on
information gleaned from the initial reconnaissance. During the initial reconnaissance phase,
cyber criminals identify non-publicly available information, which they threaten to release or
use as leverage during the extortion to entice victims to comply with ransom demands.
Impending events that could affect a victim’s stock value, such as announcements, mergers,
and acquisitions, encourage ransomware actors to target a network or adjust their timeline for
extortion where access is established.

In early 2020, a ransomware actor using the moniker “Unknown” made a post on the

Russian hacking forum “Exploit” that encouraged using the NASDAQ stock exchange to
influence the extortion process. Following this posting, unidentified ransomware actors
negotiating a payment with a victim during a March 2020 ransomware event stated,
“We have also noticed that you have stocks. If you will not engage us for negotiation we
will leak your data to the nasdaq and we will see what's gonna (sic) happen with your
stocks.”

Between March and July 2020, at least three publicly traded US companies actively

involved in mergers and acquisitions were victims of ransomware during their respective
negotiations. Of the three pending mergers, two of the three were under private
negotiations.

A November 2020 technical analysis of Pyxie RAT, a remote access trojan that often

precedes Defray777/RansomEXX ransomware infections, identified several keyword
searches on a victim’s network indicating an interest in the victim’s current and near
future stock share price. These keywords included 10-q [1], 10-sb [2], n-csr [3], nasdaq,
marketwired, and newswire.
1 10-Q is a quarterly report that must be submitted by all publicly traded companies disclosing relevant
information regarding finances.
2 10-SB was a filing form used to register the securities of small businesses who wished to trade on U.S. exchanges.
3 N-CSR is a form that registered management investment companies must file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 10 days after a company disseminates annual and semi-annual reports to stockholders.

In April 2021, Darkside ransomware [4] actors posted a message on their blog site to show

their interest in impacting a victim’s share price. The message stated, “Now our team
and partners encrypt many companies that are trading on NASDAQ and other stock
exchanges. If the company refuses to pay, we are ready to provide information before
the publication, so that it would be possible to earn in the reduction price of shares.
Write to us in ‘Contact Us’ and we will provide you with detailed information.”
The FBI does not encourage paying a ransom to criminal actors. Paying a ransom emboldens
adversaries to target additional organizations, encourages other criminal actors to engage in
the distribution of ransomware, and/or may fund illicit activities. Paying the ransom also does
not guarantee that a victim’s files will be recovered. However, the FBI understands that when
businesses are faced with an inability to function, executives will evaluate all options to protect
their shareholders, employees, and customers. Regardless of whether you or your organization
have decided to pay the ransom, the FBI urges you to report ransomware incidents to your local
FBI field office. Doing so provides the FBI with the critical information they need to prevent
future attacks by identifying and tracking ransomware attackers and holding them accountable
under US law.