2. INTRODUCTION
Air-gapping is used to protect the most sensitive of networks: voting systems, industrial control
systems (ICSes) running power grids, and SCADA systems operating nuclear centrifuges, just to name a few.
In the first half of 2020 alone, four malicious frameworks designed to breach air-gapped networks emerged,
bringing the total, by our count, to 17. This prompted us to step back and revisit each of those frameworks
from the vantage point of having discovered and analyzed firsthand three of these in the past six years.
Using the knowledge made public by more than 10 different organizations over the years, and some ad hoc
analysis to clarify or confirm some technical details, we put the frameworks in perspective to see what
history could teach us in order to improve air-gapped network security and our abilities to detect and
mitigate future attacks.
This exhaustive study allowed us to isolate several major similarities in all of them, even those produced
15 years apart. Specifically, we focused our attention on the malware execution mechanisms used on both
the connected and the air-gapped side of targeted networks and the malware functionalities within the
air-gapped network (persistence, reconnaissance, propagation, espionage, and—at least in one case—
sabotage activities), with a focus on the communication and exfiltration channels used to cross the air gap
barrier and control the components running on the isolated networks. This also resulted in a systematic
analysis structure that may be reused to document air-gapped malware that is discovered in the future.
Despite some differences and nuances found across all frameworks studied, our analysis shows how
most differ on many of those aspects only from an implementation perspective, mostly due to the severe
constraints imposed by air-gapped environments. Armed with this information, we will highlight some
detection opportunities specific to the actual techniques observed in the wild.
Our aim is to convince the reader of the importance of having all the proper defense mechanisms
to mitigate the techniques used by virtually all of these frameworks that have been observed in the wild,
before starting to look into the many theoretical air gap bypass techniques that have received a lot
of attention in recent years despite none of them ever being used in a real, publicly disclosed attack.
6 JUMPING THE AIR GAP: 15 years of nation-state effort TLP: WHITE