How to use this report
The Microsoft Security Intelligence Report has been released twice a year since
2006. Each volume is based upon data collected from millions of computers all
over the world, which not only provides valuable insights on the worldwide
threat landscape, both at home and at work, but also provides detailed
information about threat profiles faced by computer users in more than a
hundred individual countries and regions.
To get the most out of each volume, Microsoft recommends the following:
Read
Each volume of the report consists of several parts. The primary report typically
consists of a worldwide threat assessment, one or more feature articles,
guidance for mitigating risk, and some supplemental information. A summary of
the key findings in the report can be downloaded and reviewed separately from
the full report; it highlights a number of facts and subjects that are likely to be of
particular interest to readers. The regional threat assessment, available for
download and in interactive form at www.microsoft.com/security/sir/threat,
provides individual summaries of threat statistics and security trends for more
than 100 countries and regions worldwide.
Reading the volume in its entirety will provide readers with the most benefit and
context, but the report is designed to provide value in small doses as well. Take
a few minutes to review the summary information to find the information that
will be of most interest to you and your organization. Consult the table of
contents and the index to learn more about particular topics of interest.
Share
Microsoft also encourages readers to share each released volume, or its
download link, with co-workers, peers, and friends with similar interests. The
Microsoft Security Intelligence Report is written to be useful and accessible to a
wide range of audiences. Each volume contains thousands of hours of research
disseminated in easy to understand language, with advanced technical jargon
kept to a minimum. Each section and article is written and reviewed to provide
the most value for the time it takes to read.
vi HOW TO USE THIS REPORT
Assess your own risk
Reading about the threats and risks that affect different types of environments
presents a good opportunity to assess your own risks. Not every computer and
entity faces the same risk from all threats. Assess your own risks and determine
which topics and information can help you to best defend against the most
significant risks.
The volume and scope of threats facing the typical organization make it
important to prioritize. The greatest risk to any computer or organization is
posed by currently and recently active threats. Pay attention to the threats that
have most commonly affected your region or industry, focusing particularly on
the most common successful attacks in the wild that cause the most problems.
Give less consideration to very rare or theoretical-only attacks, unless your
computers are at particular risk for such threats.
Educate
Microsoft strives to make this report one of the most valuable sources of threat
and mitigation information that you can read and share. We encourage you to
use the Microsoft Security Intelligence Report as a guide to educate your
employees, friends, and families about security-related topics.
Anyone, including a business, may link, point to, or re-use articles in the
Microsoft Security Intelligence Report for informational purposes, provided the
material is not used for publication or sale outside of your company and you
comply with the following terms: You must not alter the materials in any way.
You must provide a reference to the URL at which the materials were originally
found. You must include the Microsoft copyright notice followed by “Used with
permission from Microsoft Corporation.” Please see Use of Microsoft
Copyrighted Content for further information.
Ask questions
Contact your local Microsoft representative with any questions you have about
the topics and facts presented in this report. We hope that each volume
provides a good educational summary and helps promote dialog between
people trying to best secure their computing devices. Thank you for trusting
Microsoft to be your partner in the fight against malware, hackers, and other
security threats.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  vii