Southеast Asia and Korean Peninsula
BlueNoroff is one of the most prolific financially motivated APT actors and we have
published several reports of BlueNoroff campaigns targeting financial institutions.
Recently, we uncovered another campaign that has been active since at least 2017. In this
campaign, the group sends spear-phishing emails containing an archived Windows
shortcut file. The file names are disguised as security or cryptocurrency related files in
order to entice users into executing them. The infection chain started from this shortcut
file is a complex multi-stage infection procedure. Before delivering the Windows
executable payload, the actor uses two VBS and three PowerShell scripts in order to
collect system information. The actor very carefully delivers the final payload only to the
intended targets. The backdoor payload also utilizes a multi-stage infection procedure.
The actor uses it to control infected hosts and implants additional malware for
surveillance. These malicious programs are responsible for stealing the user’s keystrokes
and saving a screenshot of the infected machine. The main targets of this campaign are
financial institutions, such as cryptocurrency businesses, and fintech companies. We
identified diverse victims from 10 countries, as well as more potential victims from open
source intelligence.
The Lazarus group has been a major threat actor for several years. Alongside goals like
cyber-espionage and cyber-sabotage, this threat actor has targeted banks and other
financial companies around the globe. The group continues to be very active. We recently
observed the Lazarus group attacking a software vendor in South Korea using Bookcode,
malware that we evaluate to be a Manuscrypt variant, utilizing a watering-hole attack to
deliver it. Manuscrypt is one of the Lazarus group’s tools that is actively being updated
and used. The group attacked the same victim twice. Almost a year prior to compromising
this victim, Lazarus attempted to infect it by masquerading as a well-known security tool,
but failed. We were able to construct the group’s post-exploitation activity, identifying
various freeware and red-teaming tools used. Although Lazarus has recently tended to
focus more on targeting the financial industry, we believe that in this campaign they were
seeking to exfiltrate intellectual property. We also observed that they previously spread
Bookcode using a decoy document related to a company working in the defense sector.
Based on our observations, we evaluate that the Bookcode malware is being used
exclusively for cyber-espionage campaigns.
In April, we released an early warning about the VHD ransomware, which was first
spotted in late March. This ransomware stood out because of its self-replication method.
The use of a spreading utility compiled with victim-specific credentials was reminiscent of
APT campaigns, but at the time we were unable to link the attack to an existing group.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2020/97937/ 5/8
7/31/2020 APT trends report Q2 2020 | Securelist
However, Kaspersky was able to identify an incident in which the VHD ransomware was
deployed, in close conjunction with known Lazarus tools, against businesses in France
and Asia. This indicates that Lazarus is behind the VHD ransomware campaigns that have
been documented so far. As far as we know, this is also the first time it has been
established that the Lazarus group has resorted to targeted ransomware attacks for
financial gain.
Last year we created a private report on a malware framework that we named MATA,
which we attribute, with low confidence, to the Lazarus group. This framework included
several components, such as a loader, orchestrator and plug-ins. Initially, this framework
targeted Windows and Linux. However, in April we discovered a suspicious macOS file
uploaded to VirusTotal using a rule to detect the MATA malware framework. After
looking into this malware, we confirmed that it was a macOS variant of the MATA
malware. The malware developers Trojanized an open-source two-factor authentication
application and utilized another open-source application template. While investigating, to
find more solid evidence for attribution, we found an old Manuscrypt strain that used a
similar configuration structure. We also discovered a cluster of C2 servers probably
related to this campaign.
The MATA framework was not the only way that Lazarus targeted macOS. We also
observed a cluster of activity linked to Operation AppleJeus. The other was similar to the
macOS malware used in a campaign that we call TangDaiwbo. This is a multi-platform
cryptocurrency exchange campaign: Lazarus utilizes macro-embedded Office documents
and spreads PowerShell or macOS malware, depending on the victim’s system.
Early this year, we reported improvements in a Lazarus campaign targeting a
cryptocurrency business. In this campaign, Lazarus adopted a downloader that sends
compromised host information and selectively fetches the next-stage payload. Recently,
we identified a Lazarus campaign with similar strategies, but targeting academic and
automotive sectors. Lazarus also adopted new methods to deliver its tools. First of all, the
group elaborated its weaponized document by adopting remote template injection
techniques. Previously, Lazarus delivered macro-embedded documents to the victim, but
the group has now applied one more stage to hinder detection. The group also utilized an
open-source PDF reader named Sumatra PDF to make Trojanized applications. They
created a Trojanized PDF reader, sending it to the victim with a crafted PDF file. If the
victim opens this file, the Trojanised PDF viewer implants malicious files and shows
decoy documents to deceive the victim. The actor delivers the final payload very carefully,
and executes it in memory. Fortunately, we were able to get the final payload and confirm
that it was a Manuscrypt variant that we had already described. We also found that it’s
the same malware variant that the US CISA (Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency) recently reported, named COPPERHEDGE.
Following our report describing the long-standing PhantomLance campaign in Southeast
Asia, we published a private report providing detailed attribution based on discovered
overlaps with reported campaigns of the OceanLotus APT. In particular, we found
multiple code similarities with the previous Android campaign, as well as similarities in
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2020/97937/ 6/8
7/31/2020 APT trends report Q2 2020 | Securelist
macOS backdoors, infrastructure overlap with Windows backdoors and a couple of crossplatform resemblances. Based on our research, we believe, with medium confidence, that
PhantomLance is a modern Android campaign conducted by OceanLotus. Apart from the
attribution details, we described the actor’s spreading strategy using techniques to bypass
app market filters. We also provided additional details about samples associated with
previously reported suspected infrastructure, as well as the latest sample deployed in
2020 that uses Firebase to decrypt its payload.
Additionally, OceanLotus has been using new variants of its multi-stage loader since the
second half of 2019. The new variants use target-specific information (username,
hostname, etc.) of the targeted host that they obtained beforehand, in order to ensure
their final implant is deployed on the right victim. The group continues to deploy its
backdoor implant, as well as Cobalt Strike Beacon, configuring them with updated
infrastructure.