Background
The first possible mention of TeamTNT was in 2011, when a website called gold.de was hacked by a group
using the signature “HildeGard@TeamTNT”. [3] This is similar to the signatures we saw in some malicious
shell scripts and ELF (Executable and Linkable Format) files, which contained the words “TeamTNT” and
“HildeGard”.
Figure 1. TeamTNT’s signatures
We believe that at least some members of the group are actors who are native German speakers as their
scripts and text, including posts on social media, are written in fluent German.
Figure 2. Examples of TeamTNT’s usage of German on social media and in shell scripts. The shell script
text shows a tongue-in-cheek comment from a TeamTNT developer complaining that he would
have to take his wife to Japan for a vacation.
4 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group
The precise number of people behind a hacking group is always difficult to estimate. Such a number
therefore has to be considered with an error margin. However, we believe that the number of people
behind TeamTNT is at least — if not exactly — 12. This estimate is based on one of the group’s posts on
its Twitter account. We also believe that the group is actively hiring new members.
Figure 3. A tweet from TeamTNT complaining about managing a group of 12 programmers
Identifying the individual members of the team can be an even more difficult challenge. Since we do not
want to make false attributions in our research, we do not speculate on this matter.
The actors behind TeamTNT profile themselves either as “honest robbers” who mean no harm or as red
team penetration testers, often teasing security researchers in the process. But as we can see in the later
section on cryptocurrency mining, the group’s seemingly “harmless” activity can actually cause heavy
financial losses.
Figure 4. TeamTNT’s red team profile and researcher teasing
5 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group
TeamTNT is active on Twitter, tending to announce its active campaigns and new malware features on
the social network. The group also uses social media to justify its cause or to complain about security
companies and researchers.
Figure 5. TeamTNT’s Christmas campaign notification on Twitter
Figure 6. A tweet from TeamTNT complaining about security researchers
6 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group