Iranian Cyber Army defaced websites associ- history of the internet.
ated with Iran’s political opposition, Israeli
businesses, independent Persian-language media, and social media platforms, posting pro-government messages. When human rights
activists and opposition leaders called for street protests, critical websites were subject to
a deluge of malicious internet traffic to disrupt access, known as distributed denial-ofservice (DDoS) attacks. [15] Government critics were spied on with malware posing as information on upcoming protest plans and public scandals. [16] An Iranian hacker breached
the Dutch security company DigiNotar to fraudulently issue encryption certificates that
allowed Tehran to spy on all domestic Gmail users, one of the largest security breaches in
the history of the internet. [17]
Ultimately, the brutality, surveillance, and censorship exercised by the security forces
debilitated the Green Movement, and by 2011 public protests had subsided. Security
agencies had adapted to the modern digital environment, with interrogations by the
IRGC including an intimate review of an arrestee’s personal life based on printed copies of his or her online communications and social media. An IRGC chief later said that
suppressing the demonstrations required widespread arrests, massive repression, and cutting off means of mass communication, such as cellphones and the internet. [18] The Green
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    11
Movement demonstrated to the Islamic Republic that the internet could be used as an
instrument of mass mobilization and posed an effective challenge to the regime’s longheld information monopoly.
The tactics, tools, and threat actors that arose during this domestic challenge to regime
stability would foreshadow the cyber posture of Iran toward a wider set of internal and
foreign threats. A recurrent theme since the outset of Iran’s cyber operations is that Iranian campaigns do not maintain clear boundaries between operations directed against its
internal opposition and those directed against foreign adversaries. [19] The same infrastructure and tools used by Iranian threat actors for campaigns against the American defense
industry are also used to target Persian-language women’s development programs; the
same malware used in destructive attacks against Saudi government institutions had been
previously used for surveillance against members of the Green Movement opposition.