~~The cybercrime~~ ~~economy and~~ ~~services~~
Through our investigations of online organized crime
networks, frontline investigations of customer attacks,
security and attack research, nation state threat
tracking, and security tool development, we continue
to see the cybercrime supply chain consolidate and
mature. It used to be that cybercriminals had to
develop all the technology for their attacks. Today,
they rely on a mature supply chain, where specialists
create cybercrime kits and services that other actors
buy and incorporate into their campaigns. With the
increased demand for these services, an economy of
specialized services has surfaced, and threat actors
are increasing automation to drive down their costs
and increase scale. For example, we are seeing an
increasing offer of backconnect proxies (proxies that
rotate between mobile, residential, and datacenter
systems) in addition to Remote Desktop Protocol
(RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), virtual private network
(VPN), virtual private server (VPS), web shells, cPanels
(webhosting management dashboard), and other
anonymization systems.
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
loads (malicious software used to update malware
on an infected computer), denial of service (DoS),
and more. As an illustration, in some marketplaces,
compromised credentials are offered by different
sellers for $1.00 USD to $50.00 USD, depending on
a variety of variables including the perceived value
of the enterprise target. The number of sites offering
services has significantly increased in the past 12
months as well as volume of credentials and variety
of phishing kits.
Among the services available to even amateur threat
actors are the cryptocurrency escrow services (to
ensure services are rendered as offered) that we
often see in commodity ransomware campaigns
where affiliate models have become firmly
established. Nontechnical cybercriminals sign up with
a ransomware affiliate where for 30% of the revenue,
the affiliate network will supply the ransomware,
recovery services, and payment services. The attacker
then buys “loads” from a market and pushes the
ransomware to the loads they purchased. They then
sit back and collect their revenue.
At times there are geographic groups of actors
who may offer certain services, but most of these
cybercrime markets are global in nature. A buyer
in Brazil can obtain phishing kits from a seller in
Pakistan, domains from the United States, victim
leads from Nigeria, and proxies from Romania.
These prices have remained fairly steady over the
past several years, but like any other market they
vary according to changes in supply, demand, and
externalities such as politics.
KEY TAKEAWAYS:
• Identity and password/phishing attacks are
cheap, and on the rise. Why would an attacker
break in when they can log in?
• Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks
are cheap for unprotected sites—about $300
USD/month.
• Ransomware kits are one of the many types of
attack kits designed to enable low-skill attackers
to perform more sophisticated attacks.
Average prices of cybercrime services for sale
Organizations now face an industrialized attacker economy with skill specialization and trading of illicit
commodities. As seen in this snapshot of average prices, many commodities that can be purchased in
Not all attacks work. It’s critical that we keep the dark markets are very inexpensive, making attacks cheaper and easier to conduct (which also drives
up attack volume).
improving our defenses to increase the failure rate
of attacks and the associated cost to attackers.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
9
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
framework designed for taking action in combatting
ransomware. [ Note 2 ] Microsoft has also published a
project plan with links to technical guidance to
help organizations better prepare for and respond
to these attacks and is contributing to a National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
publication containing a cybersecurity framework
profile for ransomware risk management. [ Note 3 ]
A ransomware and extortion attack involves a
threat actor deploying malware that encrypts
and exfiltrates data and then holds that data
for a ransom, often demanding payment in
cryptocurrency. Rather than just encrypting a victim’s
files and requesting a ransom in exchange for the
decryption key, the attackers also exfiltrate sensitive
data before deploying the ransomware. This
practice prevents victims from disengaging from
negotiations and raises the victim’s reputational
costs of not paying the ransom as the attackers likely
will not only leave the victim’s data encrypted but
also leak sensitive information.
A series of criminal activities occur long before the
ransomware is ultimately deployed across computer
systems in an organization. As a result, we created a
taxonomy that focuses on the relationship between
entities within the ransomware ecosystem because
any entity may play a different role at any given
time.
Ransomware attacks have evolved into human
operated ransomware, also known as “big game
ransomware.”
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021