Russian-speaking activity
Russian-speaking groups were not especially active during the first part of the year, with
no noteworthy technical or operational changes. However, they continued their non-stop
activity in terms of spreading, with a special interest in political activity.
This was apparent in an attack focused on the Ukraine elections. The attack surfaced
after we discovered a malicious Word document targeting a German political advisory
organization. This organization, according to its website, “advises political decisionmakers on international politics and foreign and security policy”. Our technical analysis of
the attack suggests that the Sofacy or Hades groups are behind it, though we’re unable
to say for sure which of these groups is responsible.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2019/90643/ 1/6
5/13/2019 APT trends report Q1 2019 | Securelist
Such political interests are not new. Recently, a court in Virginia gave Microsoft control of
a group of websites that were intended to look like login sites for a Washington think
tank, but are believed to be part of the infrastructure of a “Russian group suspected in
the DNC hack”.
Additionally, Microsoft revealed that a “Russian nation-state hacking group” targeted
political organizations engaged in the 2019 European Parliament elections scheduled for
the end of May.
On the technical side, since mid-January we have been tracking an active Turla
campaign targeting government bodies in Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. This time the
actor delivered its known KopiLuwak JavaScript using new .NET malware, called
“Topinambour” (aka Sunchoke) by its developers. The Topinambour dropper is delivered
along with legitimate software and consists of a tiny .NET shell that waits for Windows
shell commands from operators. Interestingly, in this campaign the attackers used
different artefacts implemented in JavaScript, .NET and PowerShell – all of them with
similar functionality.
We also published details on how Zebrocy has added the “Go” language to its arsenal –
the first time that we have observed a well-known APT threat actor deploy malware with
this compiled, open source language. Zebrocy continues to target government-related
organizations in Central Asia, both in-country and in remote locations, as well as a new
diplomatic target in the Middle East.
Finally, during February 2019 we observed a highly targeted attack in Crimea using a
previously unknown malware. The spy program was spread by email and masqueraded
as the VPN-client of a well-known Russian security company that, among other things,
provides solutions to protect networks. At this point we can’t relate this activity to any
known actor.