Conclusion
It should come as no surprise that a number of the groups affiliated with the WINNTI
approach have continued to effectively compromise their targets over the past decade.
The groups have rapidly adapted to changes in defenders’ tactics and continually
evolved their toolsets and techniques as the target landscape has changed.
As the intellectual property and other targeted data has moved to new operating
environments, these groups have readily adapted, shared new tools, borrowed from
open-source resources, and developed new methods to harvest information - all while
effectively hiding more or less in plain sight. In addition, many of the attack techniques
that worked a decade ago continue to be effective today. The cycle regularly comes full
circle, where old techniques and tricks are revived time and time again.
While much of the security industry continues to charge forward with efforts to address
the next trendy buzzword threat, few are looking back in time to assure they have
effectively solved for the issues presented by the last. Thus, some subtle changes in
tactic and a new stolen code-signing certificate appear to be the only things necessary
for these adversaries to continue evading security solutions.
In this report, BlackBerry researchers examined the activities of five adversarial
groups that share specific characteristics in how they are organized, operate, and in
their targeting selections – a methodology that can be best described as the WINNTI
approach. This ensemble, who have spent the better part of the last decade successfully
targeting organizations in stealthy cross-platform attacks, continue to operate relatively
undetected while undertaking multiple strategic and economic espionage operations.
The Linux Threat: This report detailed how this quintet of threat actor groups have
managed to successfully infiltrate and maintain persistence on servers that comprise
the backbone of the majority of large data centers using a newly identified Linux
malware toolset obfuscated by a kernel-level module rootkit, all of which allows them
to remain nearly undetectable on the infected systems. The fact that this new Linux
malware toolset has been in the wild for the better part of the last decade without
having been detected and publicly documented prior to this report makes it highly
probable that the number of impacted organizations is significant and the duration of
the infections lengthy.
The Windows Threat: This report also provided analysis of the use of Windows malware
that attempts to elude defenders through the use of stolen adware code-signing
certificates, hiding the malware in plain sight with the hopes it will be dismissed as
just another blip in a nearly constant stream of adware alerts. This report contained
multiple samples of the malware and the compromised code-signing certificates
and recommends a new designation for malware disguised as adware that will allow
defenders to better differentiate the bad from the benign and implement controls to
increase detection of malware employing this tactic.
The Mobile Device Threat: This research also examined the targeting Android
mobile devices by these WINNTI-related groups. A previous report from BlackBerry
researchers, titled Mobile Malware and APT Espionage: Prolific, Pervasive, and Cross-
Platform (BlackBerry, 2019), looked at APT groups increasing use of mobile malware
in combination with traditional desktop malware. This report continued analysis of this
tactical trend in looking at some newly discovered Android malware.