Analysis
IcedID is a crimeware-as-a-service banking trojan that steals sensitive financial
information by creating a local proxy to intercept all browsing traffic on an
infected host. First appearing in the wild in late 2017, IcedID is believed to be
the successor to the formerly prolific Vawtrak (aka Neverquest) trojan, which
declined following the arrest of key developers in January 2017 . IcedID has
historically been delivered as a later-stage payload from a variety of notable
threats, including Emotet, TrickBot, and Hancitor. In 2020, the primary initial
access vector Red Canary observed delivering IcedID was TA551. Early in the
year, we often saw IcedID as a tertiary payload after TA551 initially deployed
Ursnif or Valak. However, by July the intermediary payloads ceased as TA551
opted to deliver IcedID directly. Since TA551 ranked as our most prevalent threat
for 2020, it is no surprise that IcedID—its primary payload—also placed near the
top of the list.
Installation and execution
After the installer DLL is executed, IcedID pulls down a configuration file from
its command and control (C2) server. It then spawns an instance of a legitimate
process and hooks multiple Windows APIs in order to hollow that process and
inject into it. Throughout most of 2020, ~~msiexec.exe~~ was the target of this
process injection, although IcedID has used other processes, such as
~~svchost.exe~~, in the past.
Once execution has been achieved via the hollowed process, IcedID proceeds
to establish persistence and act on objectives. IcedID achieves persistence in
multiple ways, notably via downloading an additional binary (in EXE or DLL
form) to the user’s local folder. We’ve observed a few different folders where
the binary has been written, typically either in a subfolder of ~~AppData\Roaming~~
or ~~AppData\Local~~ . In some cases this subfolder has been named after the
username of the infected user, and in others it appears to be a random string of
characters. IcedID then sets that binary to run via scheduled tasks. Upon restart,
OVERALL RANK