Communication with the C&C Server
The data transmitted during the communication between the bot and the C&C server, naturally, do not manifest
themselves in any explicit form in online data traffic. Since an active remote control practice can generate
substantial traffic, cybercriminals compress communication data with the algorithm LZMA, though they do not
include the appropriate header inherent to this algorithm.
The data is transmitted over the TCP protocol. The samples that we analyzed established connections between
C&C servers and ports 53, 80 and 443. This port selection is not surprising: they are associated with the protocols
DNS, HTTP and HTTPS respectively. All three are routinely used in everyday operations, so they are enabled under
most firewall policies. Besides, large amounts of data typically pass through these ports (with the possible
exception of port 53), which makes it easier for the malicious traffic to remain inconspicuous.
Although the ports are associated with certain protocols, the actual content of the traffic generated by the
malicious program does not correspond to them. Early versions of the Winnti platform exhibited the following
traffic structure when communicating with C&C: each block of transmitted data started with the magic number
0xdeadface, followed by the number of blocks (in a DWORD), then the hash of the transmitted block (8 bytes), the
size of compressed data (DWORD), the size of source data (DWORD) and, finally, the actual compressed data.
The unit structure of a data block transmitted online in early versions of Winnti
This is where another weak point of the Winnti family of backdoors becomes apparent. With this data structure,
malicious network traffic could easily be spotted by, for example, the magic number 0xdeadface. The
cybercriminals probably lost control over victim computers fairly frequently as corporate system administrators
identified the intrusion by the unique headers in data packets with the help of IDS/IPS systems, and cleaned their
networks. In 2011, new versions of Winnti backdoors appeared that, while still based on the same platform,
started to use an updated protocol which included extra encryption to communicate with C&C, so the transmitted
PAGE 23| “Winnti” | More than just a game
data no longer had static marks in them. Prior to encryption, the data has the following structure (very similar to
the earlier format): the first 4 bytes are taken by the magic number 0xaced1984, then a DWORD of data packet
description, the next DWORD carries a zero value, 8 bytes of the hash of the transmitted block, then a DWORD
with the size of the compressed data, a DWORD with the size of the source data and then the actual compressed
data:
The unit structure of a data block transmitted online in newer versions of Winnti
Then the data is encrypted with regular XOR with a random DWORD size value, and in this form transmitted to the
C&C. Knowing that the first four bytes in the source data must represent the value 0xaced1984, it is easy to restore
the key for the XOR operation when the data were encrypted. This is how the above data (the XOR value was
0x002a7b2e) looked when it was intercepted in network traffic:
Encrypted data block transmitted online, in the newer versions of Winnti
Since the encryption key (the value with which the source data are encrypted with the XOR operation) is different
each time a fragment of data is transmitted, no more static unique labels can be found in the network traffic which
would quickly identify the transmitted data as belonging to the Winnti backdoor. Employing this fast, basic
method, the cybercriminals have made it much harder to expose their programs’ traffic.
PAGE 24| “Winnti” | More than just a game
Whichever protocol is used (with or without extra encryption), the workflow of communication between the bot
and the C&C stays the same at the initial stage of operation:


The bot sends the first data block, thus signaling itself;


In response, the C&C sends back the list of available plugins


The bot starts to download plugins, sending one request at a time to download each plugin


The C&C sends the requested plugin


The bot sends a message that the plugin has arrived.


We should note here that, to expedite data downloading, the creators of this platform have quite skillfully
implemented asynchronous data transmission in their protocol. For instance, the message that the bot has
received the first plugin may only arrive at the C&C when nearly all the plugins have been already sent to the bot.
Having downloaded the malicious payload, the bot deploys the plugins in the memory and initializes them. Now it’s
all set for complete remote control over the victim computer, and the bot switches to standby mode, waiting for
the operator to connect and maintaining communication with the C&C by sending “empty” messages every 15
seconds or so.
Apart from supplying the plugins, no more automatic actions are performed by the C&C: all of the work to examine
the infected computers is done manually by the attackers.
PAGE 25| “Winnti” | More than just a game