6. Insights and Recommendations
The Attackers


The Iranian offensive establishment has reached the level of knowledge and flexibility which
allows it to use “Day 1” malware, i.e. development and distribution of malware using revealed
vulnerabilities, in a period of hours to days since their publication.


The Iranians understand that a direct attack on defense systems is difficult, while infiltration


using VPN systems that bring you directly to the target’s core systems is much more cost
effective.

This report reveals a strong connection to two groups that were analyzed until today as
separate units. In recent months, several reports dealing with tool common to APT34 and
APT33 were published, while this report exemplifies the cooperation between the two as one
big espionage establishment. We know that both groups work in many tracks – infection and
social engineering, reconnaissance and espionage, and even sabotage, while emphasizing
each group’s specialty. We assess such recon campaigns to be convertible to disseminate
destructive attacks after studying the target organization, similar to the “ZeroCleare” events in

the Gulf.
The Attack Infrastructure

VPN systems which allow remote access to corporate systems comprise a significant risk,
because they essentially bypass all defense systems deployed vis-à-vis the internet. Review
and assessment are needed to understand whether the systems are controlled and monitored

completely by the organization.


The timeframe given to install a security patch after the vulnerability has been published has
shortened and we assess it to be between 24 hours and a week between the vulnerability’s
publication and the moment it becomes a real threat for the organization.


Checking outward facing systems, including different VPN systems, is critically important for
the company. There is a need of constant monitoring, making sure that the systems are
constantly updated, and preventing unneeded exposure of the administration interfaces to
the outside world. We also assess that there is a need to try and minimize the systems to the
bare minimum. Recheck of security updates to VPN systems is to be routinely preformed as


well.

After each update performed on core corporate systems, including VPN systems, it is
recommended to reset all password to all end users in the organization and to oblige all users
to re-connect to the services, in order to identify unwanted connections. Additionally, if it is

possible, it is recommended to create a two-step authentication to the corporate core
systems.


It is recommended to use VPN services that keep logs on a different media (preferably nonerasable) during communication.


Users’ permissions and active users on each station should be monitored constantly. In this


campaign, the attackers have created, multiple times, local users that allowed them to act
freely.

The attack infrastructure attached to this report should be monitored and blocked.


©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
34 | P a g e