Small Groups
What distinguishes this form of cybercriminal activity from
an affiliate program is that in this instance the criminal or
criminals organize their own fraudulent scheme. Most of
the components needed for the attack, such as malware
and its modifications (“re­packed” malware), the traffic, the
servers, etc., are bought on the black market. Often,
members of such groups are not experts in the field of
computer and network technologies; they learn about the
components and organization of financial attacks from
public sources, usually forums. The abilities of such
groups can be restricted by a number of factors.
Specifically, the use of widely­available malware results in
rapid detection by security solutions. This, in turn, makes
cybercriminals invest more money in the distribution of
malware and in its “re­packing” to bypass detection. The
end result is a significant drop in profits for the attacker.
Mistakes made by this type of cybercriminal often result in
their identification and arrest. However, as a relatively low
cost entry into the world of cybercriminal activity (from $
200), this “amateur” format continues to attract new
dealers.
An example of such an “amateur” criminal organization is
the group that in 2012 was convicted by the Russian court
for stealing more than 13 million rubles (then worth about
$422,000) from a Russian bank’s online customers.
During a comprehensive investigation Kaspersky Lab
experts were able to collect the information that allowed
law enforcement authorities to identify those behind the
theft.
The court sentenced two members of the criminal group,
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 13/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
giving each a suspended sentence of four and a half
years. However, this verdict did not stop the criminals, and
they continued to commit crimes, stealing almost as much
again over the next two and a half years. They were re­
arrested in May 2015.