ShroudedSnooper activity highlights latest threat to telecommunications entities
This specific cluster of implants involving HTTPSnoop and PipeSnoop and associated
tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) do not match a known group that Talos
tracks. We are therefore attributing this activity to a distinct intrusion set we’re calling
“ShroudedSnooper.”
In recent years, there have been many instances of state-sponsored actors and
sophisticated adversaries targeting telecommunications organizations around the world.
In 2022, this sector was consistently a top-targeted vertical in Talos IR engagements.
Telecommunications companies typically control a vast number of critical infrastructure
assets, making them high-priority targets for adversaries looking to cause significant
impact. These entities often form the backbone of national satellite, internet and
telephone networks upon which most private and government services rely.
Furthermore, telecommunications companies can serve as a gateway for adversaries to
access other businesses, subscribers or third-party providers.
Our IR findings are consistent with reports from other cybersecurity firms outlining
various attack campaigns targeting telecommunications companies globally. In 2021,
CrowdStrike disclosed a years-long campaign by the LightBasin (UNC1945) advanced
persistent threat (APT) targeting 13 telecommunications companies globally using Linux
based implants to maintain long-term access in compromised networks. That same year,
McAfee discovered activity targeting telecommunication firms in Europe, the U.S. and
Asia dubbed “Operation Diànxùn” linked to the Chinese APT group MustangPanada
(RedDelta). This campaign heavily relied on the PlugX malware implant. Also in 2021,
Recorded Future reported that four distinct Chinese state-sponsored APT groups were
targeting the email servers of a telecommunications firm in Afghanistan, again using the
PlugX implant.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/introducing-shrouded-snooper/ 2/12
1/16/24, 12:07 PM New ShroudedSnooper actor targets telecommunications firms in the Middle East with novel Implants
The targeting of telecommunications firms in middle-east Asia is also quite prevalent. In
January 2021, Clearsky disclosed the “Lebanese Cedar” APT leveraging web shells and
the “Explosive” RAT malware family to target telecommunication firms in the U.S., U.K.
and middle-east Asia. In a separate campaign, Symantec noted the MuddyWater APT
targeting telecommunication organizations in the Middle East, deploying web shells on
Exchange Servers to instrument script-based malware and dual-use tools to carry out
hands-on-keyboard activity.