Ransomware collaboration
Ransomware is one of the fastest-growing varieties of cybercrime. It has become a common
practice for attackers to threaten to disclose the stolen data unless the victim pays a ransom.
Maze and Sodinokibi operators were the most active perpetrators of such attacks in Q2 2020.
DoppelPaymer, NetWalker, Ako, Nefilim, and Clop are also among the leaders by number of
cyberextortion attacks. Some of them, like Ako, even implement a "double extortion" scheme
by demanding separate ransoms for decryption and non-disclosure of data.
To sell the stolen data, many ransomware operators create special data leak sites where they
publish a list of victims and the stolen information. Others publish the data on hacker forums.
LockBit and Ragnar Locker went even further, teaming up with the "industry leader" hacking
group Maze. The Maze operators now publish data stolen by other gangs on their data leak site.
Together, the gangs have formed the so-called Maze cartel.
However, this is not the only possible collaboration scheme. Ransomware attackers often buy
access to victim companies' networks from other criminals. The operators of NetWalker are
recruiting affiliates to spread their ransomware by offering a commission on the ransom.
fi
16
24%
3%
3%
4%
10% 25%
14% 17%
Manufacturing and industry
Healthcare
Government
IT
© Positive Technologies
Finance
Retail
Other
Multiple industries
Figure 25. Ransomware victim categories among organizations
Despite the need to share the proceeds, ransomware owners are still profiting handsomely. In
Q2 alone, they reaped millions of U.S. dollars. The University of California San Francisco paid
$1.14 million in ransom after an attack by NetWalker ransomware. The Sodinokibi ransomware
group hacked American law firm Grubman Shire Meiselas & Sacks (GSMS), which represents
a long list of international celebrities. The ransom, set at $21 million, was not paid. The hackers
then doubled the ransom and started to offer the data of A-list stars for sale. Criminals claim
to have a buyer ready for information about Donald Trump. In May, Sodinokibi held an online
auction of the stolen data, the first lot being documents relating to Madonna.
Figure 26. Auction announcement on the Sodinokibi website