Contributing teams at Microsoft
The insights in this report, as well as the actionable learnings above, have been provided by a diverse group
of security-focused individuals who work across dozens of different teams at Microsoft. Collectively, their
goal is to protect Microsoft, Microsoft customers, and the world at large from the threat of cyberattacks.
We’re proud to share these insights in a spirt of transparency, with a common goal of making the digital
world a safer place for everyone.
Cyber Defense Operations Center (CDOC)
A cybersecurity and defense facility that brings together security professionals from across the company to
protect Microsoft’s corporate infrastructure and the cloud infrastructure to which customers have access.
Incident responders sit alongside data scientists and security engineers from across Microsoft’s services,
products, and devices groups to help protect, detect, and respond to threats 24x7.
Customer Security and Trust (CST)
A cross-disciplinary team driving continuous improvement of customer security in our products and online
services. Working with engineering and security teams across the company, the mission of CST is to ensure
compliance and enhance security and transparency to protect our customers and promote global trust in
Microsoft. They formulate and advocate cybersecurity policy globally, advance digital peace through multi
stakeholder collaboration, focus on digital safety to protect customers from harmful online content and
collaborate with public and private organizations to disrupt cyberattacks and support deterrence efforts.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY
Detection and Response Team (DART)
A Microsoft team whose mission is to respond to security incidents and help Microsoft customers become
cyber-resilient. DART leverages Microsoft’s strategic partnerships with security organizations around the world
and with internal Microsoft product groups to provide the most complete and thorough investigations possible.
DART’s expertise has been leveraged by government and commercial entities around the world to help secure
their most sensitive, critical environments.
Digital Security & Risk Engineering (DSRE)
A Microsoft organization developed with a mission to enable Microsoft to build the most trusted devices and
services, while keeping our company safe and our data protected. Across the company, DSRE is continually
evolving the security strategy and taking actions to protect Microsoft assets and the data of our customers.
Digital Security Unit (DSU)
A team of cybersecurity attorneys and strategic cyber intelligence analysts who provide legal, operational,
geopolitical, and technical subject matter expertise to protect Microsoft and our customers. DSU’s analysis and
proposed solutions to complex digital security problems help to build trust in Microsoft’s enterprise security
capabilities and defenses against advanced cyber adversaries worldwide.
GitHub Security Lab
An open-source software-focused security research team. Its mission is to help secure the world’s code and
build bridges between the security research and software development communities through contributions
including security research, tooling, and meetups.
IoT Security Research Team (also known as Research 52)
A team that’s composed of domain-expert reverse engineers and data scientists. The team continuously
performs reverse-engineering and analysis of large amounts of data related to IoT threats and threat actors to
gain better visibility into the IoT landscape and uncover related trends and campaigns.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY
Microsoft Defender Team
Microsoft’s largest global organization of product-focused security researchers, applied scientists, and threat
intelligence analysts. The Defender Team delivers innovative detection and response capabilities in Microsoft 365
security solutions and Microsoft Threat Experts.
Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit (DCU)
A team of attorneys, investigators, data scientists, engineers, analysts, and business professionals that fight
cybercrime globally through the innovative application of technology, forensics, civil actions, criminal referrals,
and public/private partnerships, while protecting the security and privacy of our customers.
Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC)
Part of the defender community on the front line of security response evolution. For more than 20 years, MSRC
has been engaged with security researchers working to protect customers and the broader ecosystem. An
integral part of Microsoft’s CDOC, MSRC brings together security response experts from across the company to
help protect, detect, and respond to threats in real time.
Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC)
Microsoft’s centralized team focused on identifying, tracking, and collecting intelligence against the most
sophisticated and advanced adversaries impacting Microsoft customers, including nation state threats, malware,
phishing, and more. The threat intelligence analysts and engineering teams in MSTIC work closely with Micrsoft
security product teams to both develop and refine high-quality detections and defenses across our security
product portfolio.
TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY