4. CONCLUSION
This report shows that the Turla developers never run out of ideas when it comes to developing stealthy
backdoors. To our knowledge, Turla is the only espionage group that currently uses a backdoor entirely
controlled by emails, and more specifically via PDF attachments.
While the Turla Backdoor is not the first backdoor that uses the real mailbox of the victim to receive
commands and exfiltrate data, it is the first publicly known backdoor using a standard API (MAPI) to in­
teract with Microsoft Outlook. This is a substantial improvement over an older mail-controlled backdoor
we analyzed [17] which was using Outlook Express, just reading inbox files and writing in outbox ones.
In contrast, the Turla backdoor works even with recent versions of Outlook.
Thanks to its ability to be controlled by seemingly legitimate communication to and from the infected
22 Turla Outlook Backdoor // Analysis of an unusual Turla backdoor
machine, and its non-dependence on any particular email address, the Turla backdoor is extremely
stealthy and resilient. In this sense, this Outlook backdoor is similar to rootkits, such as Uroburos,
that receive their commands from incoming network traffic.
Our research shows that compromised organizations are at risk of not only being spied on by the Turla
group who planted the backdoor, but also by other attackers. The backdoor simply executes any com­
mands it receives, without being able to recognize the operator. Thus, it is possible that other attackers
have already reverse-engineered the backdoor and figured out how to control it - and are also spying
on victims using the backdoor.
Given the severity of this threat, we’ve decided to document the format of PDF documents
that can control the Turla backdoor to help defenders understand, monitor and mitigate its activity.
ESET researchers will continue to monitor Turla developments to help defenders to protect
their networks.
Indicators of Compromise can also be found on GitHub. For any inquiries, or to make sample submissions related
to the subject, contact us at: threatintel@eset.com.
23 Turla Outlook Backdoor // Analysis of an unusual Turla backdoor