1.5 YEARS OF SILENT OPERATIONS 5
Interrelations between incidents
In 1.5 years, Group-IB confirmed 20 incidents in total. Initially
we divided these incidents into three groups and considered
them as separate. However, through in-depth investigation of
the infrastructure, tools, and tactics applied, which will be further
covered in this report, we have concluded that one group is
behind all these attacks – MoneyTaker. This is supported by
technical analysis provided later in this report:
|Group 1|Group 2|Group 3|
|---|---|---|
|17 incidents in US and UKorganizations. In the majorityof instances, hackers used thesame C&C server to control theinitial part of their attacks. Insome cases, we saw a similaruse of the infrastructure fromwhich remote connections wereperformed using LogMeIn.|2 incidents occurred in Russiain the autumn of 2016. The twoattacks occurred at the sametime; in both cases Meterpreterwas used to attack the sametarget – servers of the Russianinterbank transfer system(AWS CBR).|1 incident in Russia in theautumn of 2017. The attackwas conducted on the AWSCBR using Meterpreter.|
|Common features of Groups 1-3•  Metasploit used to infiltrate corporate networks•   SSL certificates generated using popular brands to protect traffic between Meterpreter and C&C•     Russian-speaking attackers•     Own developers who create unique tools•     Modification of the malicious code during attack•   Covering tracks of the initial infection vector•    Setting up forwarding corporate emails to Yandex and Mail.ru, free mail services.|Common features of Groups 1-3•    Metasploit used to infiltrate corporate networks•   SSL certificates generated using popular brands to protect traffic between Meterpreter and C&C•     Russian-speaking attackers•     Own developers who create unique tools•     Modification of the malicious code during attack•   Covering tracks of the initial infection vector•    Setting up forwarding corporate emails to Yandex and Mail.ru, free mail services.|Common features of Groups 1-3•    Metasploit used to infiltrate corporate networks•   SSL certificates generated using popular brands to protect traffic between Meterpreter and C&C•     Russian-speaking attackers•     Own developers who create unique tools•     Modification of the malicious code during attack•   Covering tracks of the initial infection vector•    Setting up forwarding corporate emails to Yandex and Mail.ru, free mail services.|
||Common features of Groups 2 and 3•     Originally targeted AWS CBR in Russia•  Using domains in the .ga zone•  Similar manner of propagation across the network.•  The same hosting service used in the incidents in 2016 and 2017|Common features of Groups 2 and 3•  Originally targeted AWS CBR in Russia•  Using domains in the .ga zone•  Similar manner of propagation across the network.•  The same hosting service used in the incidents in 2016 and 2017|
|Common features of Groups 1 and 2In both groups of incidents, UltraVNC 1.1.9.4 was used. This versionwas available back in 2013. The current version of this remoteaccess tool was 1.2.0.6 at the time of attacks in Russia and the US.|Common features of Groups 1 and 2In both groups of incidents, UltraVNC 1.1.9.4 was used. This versionwas available back in 2013. The current version of this remoteaccess tool was 1.2.0.6 at the time of attacks in Russia and the US.||
MONEYTAKER: