Next-Level Phishing Targets
The attackers used specially crafted emails
to redirect targets to any of several phishing
websites with domain names that were very
similar to those of well-known conferences
and media outfits. These websites did not
host malicious content but visiting them
did lead to the automatic execution of a
nonmalicious JavaScript. Links to these fake
websites were then embedded in spearphishing emails and sent to selected targets.
Opening such an email and clicking the
link in OWA redirected victims to legitimate
websites. The JavaScript made it appear that
the victims’ OWA sessions ended while at
the same time, tricked them into reentering
their credentials. To do this, the attackers
redirected victims to fake OWA log-in pages
by setting their browsers’ open windows
property. The victims’ credentials thus ended
up in the attackers’ hands.
Note that two special conditions need to
be met for the attacks to succeed—victims
should use OWA and click the embedded
links via the web portal’s preview pane. The
attacks worked on any popular browser such
as Firefox®, Safari®, Chrome™, and Internet
Explorer®. No vulnerabilities need to be
exploited for the JavaScript to work.
Because many companies allow employees
to use webmail services to access their
mailboxes while on business travel or at
home, these attacks are likely to succeed.
Once they do, attackers can gain access to
compromised mailboxes that they can then
use to gain a foothold in target networks.
Throughout the course of investigation,
several targets have been identified,
including:
    - ACADEMI, formerly Blackwater

(United States)
countries


Military attachés from various
countries


Ministry of Defense (France)


Ministry of Defense (Hungary)


Multinational company based in
Germany


Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) (Austria)


Pakistani military officials


Polish government employees


SAIC (United States)


U.S. Department of State


Vatican Embassy (Iraq)


The following case studies reveal more indepth details on four specific attacks.
CASE 1: MINISTRY OF DEFENSE,
HUNGARY
• Malicious conference domain:
eurosatory2014 . com
• Real conference domain:
eurosatory . com
• Phished OWA domain: mail . hm .
qov . hu
• Real OWA domain: mail.hm.gov.hu
The attackers created a domain that was
very similar to eurosatory . com [14], a website
for an international land and air-land defense
and security exhibition. They then sent emails
with the link, http :// eurosatory2014 . com, to
selected employees of the target defense
ministry who might actually have been
Trend Micro | Operation Pawn Storm
members.
Clicking the link embedded in the email
via the OWA preview pane opens the real
conference website in a new tab. The victims’
OWA session in the other tab, meanwhile,
is redirected to a phished log-in page that
makes it look like the session has ended.
Real “EUROSATORY 2014” conference website
opens in a new tab after clicking the link in a
spear-phishing email viewed in OWA
“Closed” OWA session page (fake) victims will
see, forcing them to reenter their credentials
In reality, the victims’ OWA session did not
end. The previously mentioned JavaScript
just redirected them to a fake OWA login page that looks just like the Ministry of
Defense in Hungary’s real one.
Apart from “EUROSATORY 2014,” other
conferences were also used to target
employees of the Ministry of Defense in
Hungary as shown in the following table.
|Similar Attacks Against the Ministry of Defense, Hungary|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|Conference|Target Domain|Malicious Domain|
|“Africa Aerospace and Defence2014”|aadexpo . co . za|aadexpo2014 . co . za|
|“The 10th Special OperationsForces Exhibition & Conference”|sofexjordan . com|sofexjordan2014 . com|
|“ITEC”|itec . co . uk|itec2014 . co . uk|
Trend Micro | Operation Pawn Storm
CASE 2: OSCE, AUSTRIA
• Malicious news domain: vice - news .
com
• Real news domain: news . vice . com
• Phished OWA domain: log-in - osce .
org
• Real OWA domain: log-in . osce . org
This attack targeted OSCE employees in
Austria. Although the attackers used similar
tactics, they did not spoof a conference
website. They instead used a fake version of
the news website, news . vice . com.
Comparison of the legitimate (top) and spoofed
(bottom) OWA log-in pages of OSCE
Even though OSCE provides better security
for webmail users compared with the other
targets via one-time session token use during
log-in, attackers can still steal highly sensitive
data from victims by hijacking a single
session.
CASE 3: SAIC, UNITED STATES
• Malicious conference domain:
• Real conference domain:
natoexhibition . org
• Phished OWA domain: webmail -
saic . com
• Real OWA domain: webmail . saic .
com
This attack targeting SAIC was very similar
to the first case. The attackers spoofed
the website of the “Future Forces 2014”
conference to trick email recipients into
handing over their webmail credentials.
Comparison of the legitimate (top) and spoofed
(bottom) OWA log-in pages of SAIC
CASE 4: ACADEMI
• Malicious news domain: tolonevvs .
com
• Real news domain: tolonews . com
• Phished OWA domain: academl .
com
• Real OWA domain: academi . com
Trend Micro | Operation Pawn Storm
This attack targeted the employees of U.S.
defense contractor, ACADEMI, using the
same phishing tactics as in the second case.
Comparison of the legitimate (top) and spoofed
(bottom) OWA log-in pages of ACADEMI
Apart from the four specific cases presented
above, evidence pointing to a fake OWA
server for a multinational company based in
Germany was also discovered. The threat
actors registered a domain that looked
very similar to the target’s real domain and
purchased a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
certificate for the fake domain as part of
preparations for a targeted attack. Trend
Micro was able to warn the target early on,
which helped thwart the threat.