Olympic Destroyer is still alive
securelist.com /olympic-destroyer-is-still-alive/86169/
By GReAT
In March 2018 we published our research on Olympic Destroyer, an advanced threat actor that
hit organizers, suppliers and partners of the Winter Olympic Games 2018 held in
Pyeongchang, South Korea. Olympic Destroyer was a cyber-sabotage attack based on the
spread of a destructive network worm. The sabotage stage was preceded by reconnaissance
and infiltration into target networks to select the best launchpad for the self-replicating and self
modifying destructive malware.
We have previously emphasized that the story of Olympic Destroyer is different to that of other
threat actors because the whole attack was a masterful operation in deception. Despite that,
the attackers made serious mistakes, which helped us to spot and prove the forgery of rare
attribution artefacts. The attackers behind Olympic Destroyer forged automatically generated
signatures, known as Rich Header, to make it look like the malware was produced by Lazarus
APT, an actor widely believed to be associated with North Korea. If this is new to the reader,
we recommend a separate blog dedicated to the analysis of this forgery.
The deceptive behavior of Olympic Destroyer, and its excessive use of various false flags,
which tricked many researchers in the infosecurity industry, got our attention. Based on
malware similarity, the Olympic Destroyer malware was linked by other researchers to three
Chinese speaking APT actors and the allegedly North Korean Lazarus APT; some code had
hints of the EternalRomance exploit, while other code was similar to the Netya
(Expetr/NotPetya) and BadRabbit targeted ransomware. Kaspersky Lab managed to find
lateral movement tools and initial infection backdoors, and has followed the infrastructure used
to control Olympic Destroyer in one of its South Korean victims.
Some of the TTPs and operational security used by Olympic Destroyer bear a certain
resemblance to Sofacy APT group activity. When it comes to false flags, mimicking TTPs is
much harder than tampering with technical artefacts. It implies a deep knowledge of how the
actor being mimicked operates as well as operational adaptation to these new TTPs. However,
it is important to remember that Olympic Destroyer can be considered a master in the use of
false flags: for now we assess that connection with low to moderate confidence.
We decided to keep tracking the group and set our virtual ‘nets’ to catch Olympic Destroyer
again if it showed up with a similar arsenal. To our surprise it has recently resurfaced with new
activity.
In May-June 2018 we discovered new spear-phishing documents that closely resembled
weaponized documents used by Olympic Destroyer in the past. This and other TTPs led us to
believe that we were looking at the same actor again. However, this time the attacker has new
targets. According to our telemetry and the characteristics of the analyzed spear-phishing
documents, we believe the attackers behind Olympic Destroyer are now targeting financial
1/14
organizations in Russia, and biological and chemical threat prevention laboratories in Europe
and Ukraine. They continue to use a non-binary executable infection vector and obfuscated
scripts to evade detection.
Simplified infection procedure