Connections to previous phishing attacks
Although we have identified that the Cinobi banking trojan is mainly being dropped by
the Bottle exploit kit, we have also observed similar samples being distributed in the
wild since April 2019. These samples look almost similar to the Cinobi banking trojan,
but without the ability to download, install, and communicate over the Tor proxy. We
suspect that these samples were the earlier version of Cinobi (marked as Cinobi V1)
and the one with the Tor functionality we received from BottleEK is the second version
(marked as Cinobi V2).
Another connection relates to the domain used by Cinobi V1’s C&C server
(cionx[.]inteleksys[.]com), which has the same base domain as the server of Bottle
exploit kit (sales[.]inteleksys[.]com). We noticed that the campaign reuses the domain
inteleksys[.]com but uses different subdomains. It is worth noting that the domain was
used to host a legitimate website, but after its registration expired, cybercriminals reregistered it and started using it for malicious purposes. It is also possible that the
originally legitimate domain is included in cybersecurity solutions’ whitelists.
During the investigation of Cinobi V1, we found that the malware was not distributed via
exploit kit, but was distributed with a phishing page sent via spam email. The phishing
page was disguised as an office bank website asking victims to install a new certificate
to enhance security measures. However, the link to the certificate file is Cinobi V1’s
loader.
The Cinobi V1 phishing page could also be found via several domains that use
typosquatting techniques to fool internet users who mistype domains belonging to
legitimate Japanese banks on their internet browsers.
Figure 11. Example of a phishing page that contains the Cinobi V1 loader (Screenshot
from urlscan.io)
When we checked the domains linking these phishing pages, we found that one of the
IP addresses, 118[.]27[.]34[.]110, was associated with other phishing domains and
overlapped with another domain, “ts3cardd[.com],” which was used in a phishing attack
delivered via spam email, according to an alert issued by one of the targeted banks.
We also learned that the registration information of a phishing domain used to deliver
Cinobi V1 overlapped with several domains hosting Amazon-themed phishing sites.
These connections show that this campaign might also employ typical phishing attacks
to grab credentials from unsuspecting victims.
Figure 12. Domain registration information overlap between the phishing site
(japanp0st.jp) delivering Cinobi V1 and an Amazon-themed phishing site (safetb
amazon[.]jp).
Note: The profile used in the domain information is fake