PART III: THE AFTERMATH
The arrests of MSS officer XU Yanjun, his insiders (ZHENG Xiaoqing and JI Chaoqun), and Sakula
developer YU Pingan will ultimately not deter Beijing from mounting other significant cyber campaigns
designed to achieve leapfrog development in areas they perceive to be of strategic importance. Though
XU’s arrest in particular was likely a massive boon to U.S. intelligence given he was the first MSS officer
(not simply an asset) known to be arrested, China has not ceased cyber operations even after incidents
tying GOTHIC PANDA [26] and STONE PANDA [27] to the MSS were exposed publicly.
The reality is that many of the other cyber operators that made up TURBINE PANDA operations will
likely never see a jail cell. YU was arrested in 2017 following his attendance at a U.S.-based security
conference, and CrowdStrike Intelligence sensitive source reporting indicated that following his arrest,
the MSS issued strict orders for China’s security researchers to be barred from participating in overseas
conferences or Capture the Flag competitions, likely fearing a repeat occurrence and more arrests of its
offensive talents.
In years prior to that directive, Chinese teams—such as those from Qihoo 360, Tencent, and Baidu—had
dominated overseas competitions and bug bounties including Pwn2Own and CanSecWest, earning
thousands of dollars in cash rewards for their zero-day exploits for popular systems such as Android, iOS,
Tesla, Microsoft, and Adobe. Instead, the companies these researchers work for were required to
provide vulnerability information to the China Information Technical Security Evaluation Center
26 https://intrusiontruth.wordpress.com/2017/05/09/apt3-is-boyusec-a-chinese-intelligence-contractor/
27 https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/two-birds-one-stone-panda/
10
Copyright 2019
V1. 12/05VV1
(CNITSEC/ 中国信息安全测评中心 ). CNITSEC was previously identified by CrowdStrike Intelligence and other
industry reporting [28] as being affiliated with the MSS Technical Bureau and it runs the Chinese National
Information Security Vulnerability Database (CNNVD/ 中国国家信息安全漏洞库 ), which was outed for its
role in providing the MSS with cutting-edge vulnerabilities likely for use in offensive operations. [29]
However, even before this directive, it is likely that many of the vulnerabilities used in offensive MSS
operations came from these researchers. Many of the senior security researchers and executives at
Chinese security firms got their start in legacy domestic hacking groups such as Xfocus and went on to
turn their talents into successful careers—some whitehat, some blackhat, and the large majority
probably falling somewhere in the grey area. The majority of these firms are listed partners of the
CNNVD (see the image below). NSFOCUS, for example, was formed out of the remnants of the
commercialized faction of China’s patriotic hacking group the Green Army; its hanzi characters are
actually still the same as the original group’s name. Venustech and Topsec were both listed as known
Chinese state-affiliated contractors in leaked U.S. government cable. Topsec was also linked to
campaigns against the aerospace sector and Anthem breaches in public reporting. [30]
What is notable about the use of certain vulnerabilities and strains of malware sourced from the Chinese
underground is that they often uniquely indicate which actors are responsible for which campaigns. In
this case, Sakula is described in the YU indictment as being relatively unique and was provided to JSSD
28 https://www.recordedfuture.com/chinese-mss-behind-apt3/
29 https://www.recordedfuture.com/chinese-mss-vulnerability-influence/
30 https://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/media/security_response/whitepapers/the-black-vinecyberespionage-group.pdf
11
Copyright 2019
V1. 12/05VV1
lead operator LIU Chunliang by YU along with multiple other vulnerabilities that were used against
aerospace firms by LIU and other cyber operators that comprised TURBINE PANDA operations. The
usage of Sakula across multiple victims and the arrest of its developer, YU, by the FBI would prove
critical for several reasons.
Industry reporting [31] outlined the overlapping similarities between activity at one of TURBINE PANDA’s
victims that exhibited certain tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) and the usage of Sakula in the
Anthem breach publicly disclosed in 2015. As indicated by an FBI Flash Report [32] detailing the tools used
in the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) intrusion, Sakula was named along with FFRAT and
the IsSpace malware (tracked by CrowdStrike Intelligence as being used by SAMURAI PANDA and also
connected to JSSD operators in the ZHANG indictment via cyber operator ZHUANG Xiaowei) in the OPM
case, likely indicating the JSSD was also behind these operations.
Public reporting has long theorized that the same operators were behind the Anthem and OPM
incidents, and that both operations were likely perpetrated by actors affiliated with the MSS. Further
reporting tied a breach at United Airlines to the same group that perpetrated Anthem and OPM,
reaffirming that those actors had interests in aviation as well. [33] It is likely that the DoJ indictments
provided yet another piece to this complicated puzzle that saw the pilfering of the data of millions of
cleared U.S. government workers funneled to China, a veritable intelligence gold-mine for recruiting
potential future spies.