Executive Summary
A sustained cyberespionage campaign targeting at least three companies in the United
States and Europe was uncovered by Recorded Future and Rapid7 between November
2017 and September 2018. Based on the technical data uncovered, and in light of
recent disclosures by the U.S. Department of Justice on the ongoing activities of
Chinese state-sponsored threat actors, we assess with high confidence that these
incidents were conducted by APT10 (also known as Stone Panda, menuPass, CVNX) in
an effort to gain access to networks and steal valuable intellectual property or gain
commercial advantage.
The targeted companies included:
IT and business cloud services managed service provider (MSP) and Recorded
Future client and supplier, Visma, a billion-dollar Norwegian company with at
least 850,000 customers globally
An international apparel company
A U.S. law firm with strong experience in intellectual property law with clients in
the pharmaceutical, technology, electronics, biomedical, and automotive sectors,
among others
In all three incidents, the attackers gained access to networks through deployments of
Citrix and LogMeIn remote-access software using stolen valid user credentials. The
attackers then enumerated access and conducted privilege escalation on the victim
networks, utilizing DLL sideloading techniques documented in a US-CERT alert on
APT10 to deliver malware. During the Visma intrusion, APT10 deployed their Trochilus
malware with command and control (C2) communications encrypted using both RC4
and Salsa20 streaming ciphers rather than the typically observed RC4 variant. On the
two other victim networks, the attackers deployed a unique version of the UPPERCUT
(ANEL) backdoor, known to have only been used by APT10.
APT10 actors then compressed proprietary data from Visma using WinRAR (deployed
by the attackers) and exfiltrated to a Dropbox account using the cURL for Windows
command-line tool. The same Dropbox account was also accessed in a similar fashion
by the attackers during the apparel company intrusion. Dropbox was also used to
store exfiltrated documents from the third victim, a U.S. law firm, with the files again
exfiltrated using identical TTPs and uploaded using cURL for Windows.
We believe APT10 is the most significant Chinese state-sponsored cyber threat to
global corporations known to date. On top of the breadth, volume, and targets of
attacks that APT10 has conducted since at least 2016, we now know that these
operations are being run by the Chinese intelligence agency, the Ministry of State
Security (MSS).
2/21
Utilizing actors working for shell companies such as Huaying Haitai Science and
Technology Development Co Ltd ( 天津华盈海泰科技发展有限公司 ), and under the direct
supervision of their regional bureau in Tianjin, the MSS has conducted an
unprecedented campaign, dubbed “Operation Cloud Hopper,” against managed IT
service providers (MSPs) designed to steal intellectual property and enable secondary
attacks against their clients. Access to the networks of these third-party service
providers grants the MSS the ability to potentially access the networks of hundreds, if
not thousands, of corporations around the world. We assess that APT10 likely
compromised Visma with the primary goal of enabling secondary intrusions onto their
client networks, and not of stealing Visma intellectual property.
In this same time frame, APT10 also targeted a U.S. law firm and an international
apparel company, likely to gather information for commercial advantage. In all three
incidents, APT10 actors used previously acquired legitimate credentials, possibly
gained via a third-party supply chain compromise in order to gain initial access to the
law firm and the apparel company.
Recorded Future timeline of APT10 activity between August 2018 and January 2019.