Timeline of attacks
Beginning in August 2016, a group calling itself the Shadow Brokers began releasing tools it claimed to
have originated from the Equation Group. It initially released samples of the information it had, offering the
full trove to the highest bidder. Over the coming months, it progressively released more tools, until April
2017, when it released a final, large cache of tools, including the DoublePulsar backdoor, the FuzzBunch
framework, and the EternalBlue, EternalSynergy, and EternalRomance exploit tools.
However, Buckeye had already been using some of these leaked tools at least a year beforehand. The
earliest known use of Equation Group tools by Buckeye is March 31, 2016, during an attack on a target in
Hong Kong. During this attack, the Bemstour exploit tool was delivered to victims via known Buckeye
malware (Backdoor.Pirpi). One hour later, Bemstour was used against an educational institution in Belgium.
Bemstour is specifically designed to deliver a variant of the DoublePulsar backdoor. DoublePulsar is then
used to inject a secondary payload, which runs in memory only. The secondary payload enables the
attackers to access the affected computer even after DoublePulsar is removed. It is worth noting that earlier
versions did not include any means of uninstalling the DoublePulsar implant. This functionality was added
in later versions.
A significantly improved variant of the Bemstour exploit tool was rolled out in September 2016, when it was
used in an attack against an educational institution in Hong Kong. While the original variant was only
capable of exploiting 32-bit systems, the new variant could exploit both 32-bit and 64-bit targets, adding
support for newer Windows versions. Another new feature of the payload in the second variant allowed the
attacker to execute arbitrary shell commands on the infected computer. This custom payload is also
designed to copy arbitrary files and execute arbitrary processes on the targeted computer. When used
against 32-bit targets, Bemstour still delivered the same DoublePulsar backdoor. However, against 64-bit
targets it delivered only the custom payload. The attackers typically used it to execute shell commands that
created new user accounts.
Bemstour was used again in June 2017 in an attack against an organization in Luxembourg. Unlike earlier
attacks when Bemstour was delivered using Buckeye’s Pirpi backdoor, in this attack Bemstour was
delivered to the victim by a different backdoor Trojan (Backdoor.Filensfer). Between June and September
2017, Bemstour was also used against targets in the Philippines and Vietnam.
Development of Bemstour has continued into 2019. The most recent sample of Bemstour seen by
Symantec appears to have been compiled on March 23, 2019, eleven days after the zero-day vulnerability
was patched by Microsoft.
The purpose of all the attacks was to acquire a persistent presence on the victim’s network, meaning
information theft was the most likely motive of the attacks.
Tar‐
get
loca‐
tions
Hong
Kong,
Belgium
Hong Kong Luxem‐
bourg
Philippines Vietnam
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/buckeye-windows-zero-day-exploit 4/8
5/7/2019 Buckeye: Espionage Outfit Used Equation Group Tools Prior to Shadow Brokers Leak | Symantec Blogs
Tools Back‐
door.Pirpi
Bemstour
Exploit
Tool (V1)
Double‐
Pulsar
Unknown Back‐
door.‐
Filensfer
Bemstour Exploit Tool
(V2)
DoublePulsar (32-bit)
or custom payload
only (64-bit)
Unknown Unknown
Bemstour
Exploit
Tool (V1)
Double‐
Pulsar
Shadow
Brokers
Leak
Bemstour Exploit Tool
(V1 & V2)
DoublePulsar (32-bit)
or custom payload
only (64-bit)
Bemstour Exploit Tool
(V2)
DoublePulsar (32-bit)
or custom payload
only (64-bit)
Table 1. Buckeye Tool Usage Over Time