Cyber Espionage Targeting Most Closely Aligns with Belarusian Government Interests
UNC1151 has targeted a wide variety of governmental and private sector entities, with a focus in
https://www.mandiant.com/resources/unc1151-linked-to-belarus-government 1/10
11/17/2021 UNC1151 Assessed with High Confidence to have Links to Belarus, Ghostwriter Campaign Aligned with Belarusian…
Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, and Germany. The targeting also includes Belarusian
dissidents, media entities, and journalists. While there are multiple intelligence services that
are interested in these countries, the specific targeting scope is most consistent with
Belarusian interests. In addition to the targeting scope, UNC1151 operations have focused on
obtaining confidential information and no monetization efforts have been uncovered.
Since at least 2016, UNC1151 has registered credential theft domains that spoof legitimate
websites to steal victim credentials. Outside of the major American companies that are
used worldwide (Facebook, Google, Twitter), most spoofed organizations have been in the
five countries listed above. This has included regional webmail providers, national and
local governments, and private businesses.
Malware based intrusions have also focused on Eastern Europe. Multiple significant
intrusions into Ukrainian government entities have been conducted by UNC1151. Though
most of the activity was targeting Ukraine, some targeted Lithuania and Poland.
UNC1151 targeted multiple Belarusian media entities and several members of the political
opposition in Belarus in the year before the 2020 Belarusian election. UNC1151 has
targeted media entities in Lithuania, Poland, Ukraine, and Latvia, but we have not seen
similar targeting of opposition leaders or domestic political activists in these countries.
Additionally, in several cases, individuals targeted by UNC1151 before the 2020 Belarusian
election were later arrested by the Belarusian government.
The group has not targeted Russian or Belarusian state entities. It has spear phished
intergovernmental organizations dealing with former-Soviet states, but not their
governments.
While the majority of UNC1151 operations have targeted countries neighboring Belarus, a small
minority have been conducted against governments with no obvious connection to Belarus.
There are multiple possible explanations for this targeting, including incidental inclusion on
diplomatic mailing lists, or non-public bilateral issues. However, the targeting that does not
align directly to Belarusian interests could indicate that UNC1151 also supports additional
priorities. These out-of-scope operations mainly took place between 2016 and 2019.
https://www.mandiant.com/resources/unc1151-linked-to-belarus-government 2/10
11/17/2021 UNC1151 Assessed with High Confidence to have Links to Belarus, Ghostwriter Campaign Aligned with Belarusian…
Figure 1: Map of UNC1151 Targeting from 2017 to 2020
Historical UNC1151 domains have spoofed the websites of entities such as Malta’s
Government, Kuwaiti Army (mail.kuwaitarmy.gov-kw.ml), France’s military, and other
targets that are beyond Belarus’ immediate geographic neighborhood. More recent
UNC1151 domains have spoofed entities related to high priority targets such as Poland,
Lithuania, and Ukraine.
In June 2019, UNC1151 sent a phish with a malicious attachment to 33 recipients. While the
majority were in located in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, and Ukraine, it was also sent to the
Colombian, Irish and Swiss governments. In addition, multiple credential theft emails have
been sent to the Colombian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.