Similarity comparison analysis of 'Spy Cloud' and 'Geumseong 121' attack cases
ESRC released the threat intelligence report 'Operation Printing Paper 3', in which in-depth
data and Indicator (IoC) data ensuring that the same group is behind the 'Operation Spy
Cloud' APT attack are included, on Threat Inside service on March 13, 2020.
[Figure 12] The latest threat intelligence report cover page of the same APT group
ESRC has analyzed multiple attack traces of 'Operation Spy Cloud' quite comprehensively,
finding out that the 'Guemseong 121' group's cyber operation activities and threat indicators
are strongly connected.
Several e-mail accounts and subscription information of Internet cloud service used by
attackers are the same exactly, some of which have been changed or revoked.
In particular, Google Gmail accounts found in DOC malicious documents were recycled as
they were used in HWP malicious documents, and several HWP post script techniques used in
vulnerability attacks also overlapped.
Moreover, not only Windows-based malicious files but also Android-based smartphone attack
methods have been found in the 'Operation Spy Cloud' campaign.
[Figure 13] Comparative analysis of 'Guemseong 121' attack cases
The same technique has been used for most PostScripts of the HWP malicious document file.
The similarity is very high in variable declaration, etc., and the same post scripts are used in
some cases. New techniques have been introduced to evade detection of security solutions in
some variants.
[Figure 14] Comparison of postscript techniques used in malicious hwp documents
The comparative analysis of the functions of the final payload binary files generated when the
vulnerability in the hwp document is triggered indicates that they consist of the same
commands. Also, cloud services such as Dropbox and pCloud have been used as command
control (C2) servers for information leaks.
[Figure 15] Comparison of final binary functions installed as a hwp document file
As we have seen so far, the 'Geumseong 121' group has been continuously carrying out the
multiple threat activities targeting against South Korea.
ESRC analyzed many hacking tools and strategies used by the 'Guemseong 121' group to
confirm that the group has carried out cyber reconnaissance on a daily basis.
As cyber criminals become increasingly sophisticated and cyber security threats continue to
rise and government-supported cyber operations emerge as a threat to national security,
threat intelligence-based response and cooperation in cybersecurity is urgently needed.
We will provide you with more detailed information related to our research containing the
threat cases and Indicators of Compromise (IoC) information of the 'Geumseong 121' group
on the 'Threat Inside' service.