Second set of Emails
In this scenario, the attackers impersonate a known journalist. Unlike the first format, the latter does
not contain any link to a fake website. The attacker offers the victim to participate in an online meeting
about Iran and other subjects of interest for the target (e.g. recent discourse between Iran and the US).
After presenting himself and the subject of the meeting, the attacker would ask whether the victim is
interested in participating. If so, they are requested to replay in order to receive the following details:


A list of the other participants.


Date and time for the meeting.


Details regarding the method of payment.


We identified on the website URLScan a few scans of a link from the website of Deutcshe Welle, a
Germany-based international news portal. As presented in the following image, the victims were
redirected to the website from malicious domains of the group (which can be found on the ClearSky
Twitter account [6] ). One of the domains is dw[.]de – a decoy domain which was mentioned in the
previous email.
6 https://twitter.com/clearskysec/status/1006445262003494913
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: AMBER - The content of the document is solely for internal use. Distributing the report outside of recipient organization is
not permitted.
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 6 of 16
This link was scanned via URLScan by an anonymous user less than a month days ago, which might
reveal another attack by Charming Kitten [7] .
A second wave of attacks using the same vector took place in August. The attackers sent multiple
email messages in a single night to multiple potential victims, impersonating a woman called
Samantha Vinograd from who works at CNN.
Similarly to the previous attack wave, the email message distributed to the victims contained multiple
spelling mistakes, especially in the names of the reporters the attackers impersonated. For example,
in the email address used to send the decoy emails is the last name of the reporter is misspelled.
Below here is the phishing email’s content:
*Hello ** *
I'm Samantha Vinograd, CNN national security analyst.
CNN News intends to interview some of Israel's successful figures abroad
and broadcast it as a documentary. We have interviewed some of the leading
Israeli figures in the US, Europe and other countries and are very eager to
meet you.
Your humanitarian and political activities have determined us to produce a
short documentary of your life and your family.
You can specify the time and place of the first meeting for the
documentary pre-production stage.

Please advise me of any special mobility or dietary requirements you may
have. I hope you are able to accept this invitation and I look forward to
hearing from you.*

Samantha Vinograd
CNN National Security Analyst ,
Author of @CNN Presidential Weekly Briefing
An analysis of the email’s headers reveals that the attackers planted an email tracker within the
message. The tracker can be seen below:
The tracker is used by the attackers to check whether the message is forwarded to additional
recipients, and to obtain the geolocation and IP address of the victim. Data is collected via a cookie
that is installed on the victim machine in the following route:
7 https://urlscan.io/result/12cbdac3-8a98-4dd3-9158-7c875d8db71e/
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: AMBER - The content of the document is solely for internal use. Distributing the report outside of recipient organization is
not permitted.
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 7 of 16
C:\Users\admin\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Cookies\Low\admin@gnldr[$].txt
Below here is the content of the cookie:
To further disguise the malicious nature of the message, the attackers appended the CNN logo:
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: AMBER - The content of the document is solely for internal use. Distributing the report outside of recipient organization is
not permitted.
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 8 of 16