Conclusions
Chinese theory over the last several years indi­
cates that China wants to become proficient in active
offense, cyber reconnaissance, cyber-stratagem, and
computer exploitation activities in case the PLA has
to go to war. If China feels it can gain the initiative
by obtaining information superiority or by prevent­
ing cyber strikes, then the coming years may involve
challenges from that sector. While it remains easy
to measure the intent of troop deployments, the
intent of a Chinese electron is harder to measure.
Is it inserting a virus, conducting reconnaissance,
or disabling a system? The world will move into
uncertain territory as nations attempt to conduct
responses to and develop consequence management
actions for truly disruptive electronic intrusions.
The Chinese note that IO tactics and techniques
allow more emphasis on the principle of offense
than on traditional warfare. A weaker force, for
example, can inflict much damage on a superior
force with a properly timed and precisely defined
asymmetric information attack. China portrays itself
regularly as the weaker side of the U.S.-Chinese
relationship. It thinks that offensive operations such
as information deterrence, information blockade,
information power creation (electronic camouflage,
network deception, etc.), information contamina­
tion, information harassment, nodal destruction,
system paralysis, and entity destruction are key to
victory in a modern conflict with America.
One should remember that this analysis stems
only from open-source information and public
comments from the PLA, and that China’s under­
standing of the intersection of strategy and infor­
mation technology, especially as it relates to actual
conflict, is not extensive in a practical sense. The
Military Review  November-December 2008 53
Chinese have little recent experience with con­
flict. Their forces have not fought an actual war in
decades. From a theoretical perspective, however,
China has written extensively on the use of infor­
mation technology and electronic preemption and
given both much thought. Chinese cyber intrusions
indicate that the Chinese are gaining a lot of practi­
cal and theoretical experience in peacetime.
The PLA’s open-source comments can be inter­
preted either as an attempt to work with the West or
to vigorously oppose it. Perhaps the PLA is being
very open and transparent in its cyber strategies,
perhaps more open than in any other area of mili­
tary operations. (The PLA is far more open with
its information warfare thinking, for example, than
Russia.) If the PLA’s intent is to oppose the West,
it may in fact be concealing rich information war­
fare concepts in PLA “rules and regulations” (the
PLA’s equivalent of doctrine) within the general
staff directorates and research institutes. China’s
information warfare rules and regulations are not
available to other nations, while unclassified U.S.
doctrine is available to anyone on the Internet. The
PLA keeps its rules and regulations close to its
chest. In this case, lack of transparency introduces
unwanted ambiguity. America and other nations
under threat of PLA incursions may react harshly
to some scenarios developed by the Chinese and,
thus, unintentionally set off a conflict.
How and when China might use its activeoffensive concepts for purposes other than recon­
naissance is unclear, but, as general concepts, they
are worrisome. It does not bode well for future
cooperation and stability if Chinese theorists really
do believe (as they openly state) that China can
offset an opponent’s information superiority only
if China strikes first. China will no doubt continue
to use technology in conjunction with innovative
stratagems to try to deceive our high-tech systems
or perhaps even to force errors in the cognitive
processes of U.S. decision-makers. We live in
interesting times. MR
NOTES


Zhu Wenguan and Chen Taiyi, Information War (place and publisher not
stated, 1999), chap. 5 (Computer Operations). This chapter discusses offensive and
defensive computer operations.


Ibid.


Ibid.


Ibid. At one point in the discussion, the authors state, “We need to observe
our military’s strategy of active offense and in computer confrontation training ensure
both defense and offense are main partners.”


Leng Bingling, Wang Yulin, and Zhao Wenxiang, “Bringing Internet Warfare
into the Military System is of Equal Significance with Land, Sea, and Air Power,”
Jiefangjun Bao ( Liberation Army Daily ), 11 November 1999, 7, as translated and
downloaded from the Foreign Broadcast Information Service (FBIS) Web site, 15
November 1999.


Fan Changlong, “Stand in the Forefront of the New Military Revolution in
Deepening Troop Training through Science and Technology,” Jiefangjun Bao ( Lib­
eration Army Daily ), 4 April 2000, 6, as translated and downloaded from the FBIS
Web site, 6 April 2000.


Niu Li, Li Jiangzhou, and Xu Dehui, “Planning and Application of Strategies
of Information Operations in High-Tech Local War,” Zhongguo Junshi Kexue ( China
Military Science ) no. 4, 2000, 115-22, as translated and downloaded from the FBIS
Web site, 9 November 2000.


Dai Qingmin, “Innovating and Developing Views on Information Operations,”
Zhongguo Junshi Kexue, date not given.


Ibid.


Ibid.


Yang Jian, Zhang Youhua, and Lu Zhankun, (no title), Jisuanji Yu Xinxi Jishu
(Internet version of Computer and Information Technology ), Anhui Computer Sub­
scriber Association and the Anhui Computer Society, 16 March 2000, as translated
and downloaded from the FBIS Web site, 18 April 2000.


“China’s IW Capabilities,” Guangjiao Jing, Hong Kong, 16 September 2000.


Ge Zhenfeng, chap. 16, sec. 4, 366. For translations of excerpts of this book, the
author thanks Dr. Gary Bjorge, Combat Studies Institute, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.


Ge Zhenfeng, chap. 24, sec. 6, 493.

Peng and Yao, 418-19.

Wen T’ao, “PLA Bent on Seizing ‘Information Control.’” Hong Kong Ching
Pao, 1 June 2002, no. 299, 44-46, as translated and downloaded from the FBIS
web page, 5 June 2002.


Ibid.


Dai Qingmin, “On Integrating Network Warfare and Electronic Warfare,” Zhong­
guo Junshi Kexue ( China Military Science ), February 2002, 112-17, as translated and
downloaded from the FBIS Web site, 24 June 2002.


Fan Yongsheng, Wu Xinghan, “War on Networks: Modern ‘Contradictory’
Offensive, Defensive Warfare ,” Jiefangjun Bao ( Liberation Army Daily ), 14 August


2002, 11, as translated and downloaded from the FBIS Web site, 14 August 2002.


“PLA to Organize First Information Warfare Units,” Mingpao News, 12 March
2003, http://full.mingpaonews.com/20030312.


Direct Information War, 170.

Ibid., 169.
Ibid.

Li Mingrang, “Develop the Advantage of People’s War under the Conditions
of Innovation and Informatization,” Guofang, 15 November 2003, 7-8, as translated
and downloaded from the FBIS Web site.


Ibid.


Shen Weiguang, Deciphering Information Security (Xinhua Publishing House;
July 2003), 127-241.


Ibid., 211.


Yao Youzhi, Editor-in-Chief, Warfare Strategy Theory (Liberation Army Press,
2005), 475-76.


Ibid.


Ibid., 346-49.

Ibid., 99-101.

Zhang Zhibin, “Offense is Not Necessarily the Best Defense—Preliminary
Study and Thinking on the Dialectical Relationship between Offense and Defense in
Network Warfare,” Liberation Army Daily, 13 March 2007, as downloaded from the
Open Source Center web site, 9 April 2007.


Nathan Thornburgh, “The Invasion of the Chinese Cyberspies,” Time, 29
August 2005, .


Vago Muradian, “China Tried to Blind U.S. Sats with Laser,” Defense News,
25 September 2006, 1.


Josh Rogin, “Network Attack Disables Naval War College,” Federal Computer
Week, 30 November 2006, .


Anthony Kuhn, National Public Radio, 19 January 2007, interview with Beijing
representative.


“Oak Ridge National Lab Reports ‘Sophisticated’ Cyber Attack Netted Per­
sonal Data on Visitors,” The Associated Press, 6 December 2007, .


“Chinese Hackers Attack Taiwan Military Computers,” Taipei P’ing-kuo Jih-
pao (Internet Version), 15 May 2006, as reported in Open Source Center report
CPP20060516310002.


Tim Johnson, “China Denies Cyber-Attack,” Kansas City Star, 5 September
2007, A5.


Ibid.


Simon Elegant, “Enemies at the Firewall,” Time, 19 December 2007, .


Conversation with Scott Henderson, whose book on Chinese hackers, Dark Visitor,
is forthcoming. This book is probably the best open-source work on Chinese hackers.


54 November-December 2008  Military Review