THERE ARE 3 COMMENTS
If you would like to comment on this article you must first login
garahm steele
Posted on September 9, 2015. 6:40 pm
would like more info regarding MITM etc
Reply
ed
Posted on September 10, 2015. 6:06 pm
Have you actually observed outbound c2 like you illustrate in the
diagram? Or only downlink data being sent?
Reply
Jens Lechtenbörger
Posted on September 14, 2015. 1:58 pm
Many thanks for sharing these observations!
I believe that part of your analysis is mixed up.

Once an IP address that is routed through the satellite’s

downstream link is identified, the attackers start listening for packets
coming from the Internet to this specific IP. When such a packet is
identified, for instance a TCP/IP SYN packet, they identify the
source and spoof a reply packet (e.g. SYN ACK) back to the source
using a conventional Internet line.
Say, Alice is the ordinary/legitimate subscriber, Bob sends this SYN
packet to her, which is also received by Mallory, and Mallory sends
the SYN/ACK. If Bob sends this SYN packet, he probably expects
Alice to send the SYN/ACK, which she does. So, both Alice and
Mallory send a SYN/ACK. What is Mallory supposed to gain from
this?

At the same time, the legitimate user of the link just ignores the

packet as it goes to an otherwise unopened port, for instance, port
https://securelist.com/blog/research/72081/satellite-turla-apt-command-and-control-in-the-sky/ 16/17
2015/10/28 Satellite Turla: APT Command and Control in the Sky - Securelist
80 or 10080.
Huh? Bob opened that connection, so he certainly does not ignore
packets. Alice responds to a SYN packet, so she does not ignore
either. The port observed by Mallory quite likely is not unopened.
Instead, if I were Mallory, I would do the following: I see that Alice is
a satellite subscriber and learn her IP address. Thus, I can send
TCP SYN to Port 80 on her IP address. If she does not run a web
server and is behind a firewall, I won’t receive a reply. Thus, I can
use her IP address and port 80 for my own server. (In fact, I can
port scan on her; if she drops any SYN packet I can use that port
instead of 80.) Packets will be delivered to her and me, she (or her
firewall) throws away the packets, so my own connection will be
stable.
I’d like to point out the lesson to be learned here: If you are on a
broadcast network, send your RST packets. Otherwise, everyone is
free to hide under your IP address.
(Besides, if there are unassigned IP addresses, Mallory might just
use one of those—if they are routed by the satellite network’s
operator, although they are unassigned.)
Reply
https://securelist.com/blog/research/72081/satellite-turla-apt-command-and-control-in-the-sky/ 17/17