FireEye Identifies Phishing Campaign
In late June 2019, FireEye identified a phishing campaign conducted by APT34, an
Iranian-nexus threat actor. Three key attributes caught our eye with this particular
campaign:

Masquerading as a member of Cambridge University to gain victims’ trust to open

malicious documents,


The usage of LinkedIn to deliver malicious documents,


The addition of three new malware families to APT34’s arsenal.


FireEye’s platform successfully thwarted this attempted intrusion, stopping a new
malware variant dead in its tracks. Additionally, with the assistance of our FireEye Labs
Advanced Reverse Engineering (FLARE), Intelligence, and Advanced Practices teams,
we identified three new malware families and a reappearance of PICKPOCKET, malware
exclusively observed in use by APT34. The new malware families, which we will
examine later in this post, show APT34 relying on their PowerShell development
capabilities, as well as trying their hand at Golang.
APT34 is an Iran-nexus cluster of cyber espionage activity that has been active since at
least 2014. They use a mix of public and non-public tools to collect strategic information
that would benefit nation-state interests pertaining to geopolitical and economic needs.
APT34 aligns with elements of activity reported as OilRig and Greenbug, by various
security researchers. This threat group has conducted broad targeting across a variety of
industries operating in the Middle East; however, we believe APT34's strongest interest
is gaining access to financial, energy, and government entities.
Additional research on APT34 can be found in this FireEye blog post, this CERT-OPMD
post, and this Cisco post.
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/07/hard-pass-declining-apt34-invite-to-join-their-professional-network.html 1/10
7/19/2019 Hard Pass: Declining APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Network « Hard Pass: Declining APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Networ…
Managed Defense also initiated a Community Protection Event (CPE) titled “Geopolitical
Spotlight: Iran.” This CPE was created to ensure our customers are updated with new
discoveries, activity and detection efforts related to this campaign, along with other
recent activity from Iranian-nexus threat actors to include APT33, which is mentioned in
this updated FireEye blog post.