The malware’s protection
As explained below, malware is protected by VMProtect 3.x which makes it difficult to analyze even through a manual
approach.
VMProtect protects code by executing it on a virtual machine with non-standard architecture that makes it extremely
difficult to analyze and crack the software. Besides that, VMProtect generates and verifies serial numbers, limits free
upgrades and much more.
After some rounds, we found that it is protected with the VMProtect 3.x .
Figure 20: Lampion protected with the VMProtect 3.x.
VMProtect has 3 protection modes: Mutation, Virtualization, and “ Ultra ” (both methods combined).
Mutation does what it says it does: it mutates the assembly code to make automated analysis of it harder. The
resulting mutated code varies drastically per compilation.
On the other hand, Virtualization translates the code into a special format that only a special virtual machine can
run. It then inserts a “stub” function to call the VM where the actual code was supposed to be ran.
Another detail is two sections identified in PE File ( vmp0 and vmp1 ), which contains the packed binary code which will
later be devirtualized at runtime, and also has the EP (entry point) where the binary will be executed first.
Note: Details about the VMProtector disassemble will not be displayed in this analysis as it is commercial
software for packing and protecting executable files.
https://seguranca-informatica.pt/targeting-portugal-a-new-trojan-lampion-has-spread-using-template-emails-from-the-portuguese-government-finance-tax/#.X… 12/25
1/6/2020 Targeting Portugal: A new trojan 'Lampion' has spread using template emails from the Portuguese Government Finance & Tax
Figure 21: Malware sections and high entropy of section vmp1.
As shown, there are two sections in binary ( vmp0 and vmp1 ) with high entropy that are known as a result of VMProtector.
Also, the EP is outside of the standard location. Now it is on: .vmp1 .
In detail, the malware was developed in Delphi. The IDE Embarcaredo was used to support its developing.
Figure 22: Resources from the Lampion trojan malware.
As noted from Figure 22, all the source-code logic is available within a feature called TFORM1, a Delphi form.
https://seguranca-informatica.pt/targeting-portugal-a-new-trojan-lampion-has-spread-using-template-emails-from-the-portuguese-government-finance-tax/#.X… 13/25
1/6/2020 Targeting Portugal: A new trojan 'Lampion' has spread using template emails from the Portuguese Government Finance & Tax
Figure 23: Details about Embarcaredo.
However, once the malware is protected with VMProtector, it is not possible to decompile the binary source-code.