IRAN’S INTERNAL TARGETS
The history of Iranian offensive cyber operations has demonstrated that the same threat
actors responsible for espionage against the private sector engage in surveillance of human rights defenders, and with considerably more success, given the latter’s resource
constraints. Through the lens of such attacks, the relationship between Iran-originated
cyber activities and the government as well as the motivations for such operations are
made clearer. These communities foreshadow the tactics and tools that will be employed
against other targets, and increased information will enable more effective education and
mitigation strategies.
While the internet has afforded Tehran’s security agencies new possibilities for surveilling
and intercepting the communications of its citizens, concurrent information technologies also limit the reach of the state. Iran was one of the first countries in the Middle East
to connect to the internet, and as a result over half of the population was frequently using the internet as of March 2017. [104] Iranian internet users have been quick to embrace
social media and chat applications in large numbers as forums where there are more
social freedoms.
As Iranian citizens have moved their communications to internet platforms hosted outside Iran and protected their communications from eavesdropping by using encryption,
they have also evaded the more traditional means by which Iranian law enforcement and
intelligence agencies perform surveillance. [105] Whereas local hosting providers and social
media could be compelled to remove content and disclose account ownership information, platforms hosted outside Iran are beyond the direct reach of the state.
39
The Iranian government has sought to compel foreign firms to comply with requests for
user data, without great success. [106] Domestic alternatives to foreign services, supported
by the state under its national internet plan, have failed to attract significant adoption
(Iranian officials themselves tend to use communication tools and social media applications developed in the United States). [107] Moreover, millions in the Iranian diaspora—
many of whom left Iran because of state repression—live in countries with no security
cooperation agreement with Tehran and are less inclined to communicate over insecure
Iranian platforms. As a result, in contrast to the first two decades after the revolution,
Iranians’ communications and personal activities are increasingly out of the state’s reach.
This dynamic has fundamentally altered the nature of state controls.
The Iranian government has struggled to respond to the challenges posed by the internet
to the state’s information and communication monopoly. Among their first responses
was mandatory content filtering, which entailed blocking access to any sites considered
pornographic, antireligious, or politically subversive. With the increased availability of
circumvention tools, however, filtering became less effective. Subsequently, basic offensive cyber operations, such as disrupting adversarial sites during the Green Movement,
gave the regime the ability to reassert some control over information flows and project
the illusion of the Islamic Republic’s dominance over the internet.
Iranian cyber operations are highly adaptable as the online platforms and tools used by
the public change. For example, after Iranians shifted to Telegram because of its unfiltered public chat feature and security claims, so too did the attention of Iranian threat
actors. Alongside credential theft operations targeting Telegram users, one threat actor
appears to have gone as far as mapping all the Telegram accounts connected with Iranian
telephone numbers. This information-gathering operation had deeper ties to efforts to
target the chat application’s users and aligned with recurrent arrests of administrators
from critical Telegram groups. This learning process is repeated elsewhere, including for
mobile phones and Macintosh computers. [108]
Across discrete sets of threat actors and different periods of time, state-aligned offen-
sive cyber operations routinely focus on similar classes of targets, primarily:
1. Government officials
2. Reformist politicians
3. Media professionals
4. Religious minorities
5. Cultural figures
6. Opposition groups, terrorist organizations, and ethnic separatist movements
40     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT