H accounts used for CnC, discern malicious
network traffic from legitimate activity, and
locate the malicious payloads downloaded by
the malware.

Identifying daily potential Twitter accounts

requires network defenders to have access to
the associated HAMMERTOSS binary and to
reverse engineer it to identify the basename
and the algorithm used to create the potential
accounts. Monitoring malicious tweets from
these accounts is difficult as each sample is
capable of generating hundreds of potential
Twitter accounts annually, and APT29 may
only register a small number of those accounts
for CnC.

Employing legitimate web services that are

widely allowed in organizations’ networks—
some of which use Secure Sockets Layer
connections that ensure the communications
are encrypted—makes it harder for network
defenders to discern between malicious and
legitimate traffic.

Using steganography and varying the image size

makes the target payload—the image containing
the appended, encoded commands—less
predictable. Even if the network defenders are
able to predict or identify the target payloads,
they need the associated HAMMERTOSS
sample and relevant tweet containing the
related encryption key information to decrypt
the contents.
APT29: AN ADAPTIVE AND DISCIPLINED
THREAT GROUP
HAMMERTOSS illustrates APT29’s ability to adapt
quickly during operations to avoid detection and
removal. For example, if an organization blocks
access to GitHub, APT29 could easily redirect
HAMMERTOSS to download an image with
encrypted instructions from another website.
Similarly, if an organization starts monitoring
Twitter activity on their network, APT29 could
easily switch to using the Uploader variant of
HAMMERTOSS, which does not use Twitter and
communicates directly to a specified URL. If an
organization identifies the handle generation
algorithm and attempts to research old Twitter
accounts, tweets, or secondary URLs, APT29
could easily delete previously used accounts or the
locations where images were stored.
While each technique in HAMMERTOSS is not
new, APT29 has combined them into a single piece
of malware. Individually, each technique offers
some degree of obfuscation for the threat group’s
activity. In combination, these techniques make it
particularly hard to identify HAMMERTOSS or spot
malicious network traffic; determine the nature
and purpose of the binary; discern the malware’s
CnC method and predict its CnC accounts; capture
and decode second-stage CnC information; and
pinpoint and decrypt the image files containing
malware commands. This makes HAMMERTOSS
a powerful backdoor at the disposal of one of the
most capable threat groups we have observed.
13
FireEye, Inc. | 1440 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035 | 408.321.6300 | 877.FIREEYE (347.3393) | info@fireeye.com | www.fireeye.com
© 2015 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of
FireEye, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks
or service marks of their respective owners. SP.APT29.EN-US.072015