Context and background
The world of data science and cybersecurity is nothing
like detective work in the movies. Usually, fraudulent activity
is identified, traced to its source, and then cut off — and
that’s where the vast majority of cases end. Rarely does
corporate ad fraud prevention lead to criminal charges, but
that is exactly what happened with 3ve.
3ve first emerged as a small bot-driven effort that
subsequently grew into a large and sophisticated operation.
As we investigated and battled against it, we began to
better understand the operation and its aggressive
evolution — and realized there were several operations
with some common characteristics. Through our fight, we
found ourselves on a path of discovery, exploration, and
what some might describe as adventure.
Today, digital advertising is primarily bought and sold
through “programmatic” platforms. Publishers agree to
feature ads alongside their content and use Supply Side
Platforms (SSPs) to auction their available ad space,
or inventory, to advertisers. Advertisers use Demand
Side Platforms (DSPs) to bid on that available ad space
based on how successful they think those ads will be in
generating the interest of visitors. These auctions happen
billions of times a day, in the milliseconds before a page
loads on your browser, and inventory can be passed
between many auctions before being matched with an
advertiser who wants to place their ad on your screen.
The ability to sell and purchase digital advertising inventory
programmatically has enabled publishers to maximize
revenues and advertisers to realize a greater return on
investment. Subsequently, programmatic advertising has
rapidly evolved and grown into a multi-billion dollar industry,
increasingly gaining prominence and visibility across the
digital advertising ecosystem. Unfortunately, this increased
prominence has also attracted the attention of tech-savvy
fraudsters, who try to produce fake traffic and fraudulent
ad inventory to trick advertisers into believing that their ads
are being seen by actual, interested users. These fraudsters
attempt to extract small amounts of money from multiple
parties and transactions with the goal of making the losses
appear unconnected — if they’re successful, in aggregate,
these extracted amounts can add up to considerable profits
for the fraudsters.
Because operations like 3ve bring distrust and instability
to the digital advertising ecosystem, we were as thorough
as possible in our efforts to bring it down. In the twists and
turns that followed, we learned valuable lessons about the
tactics and approaches fraudsters try to use to escape the
notice of both their victims and those trying to uncover their
operations, and the signals that will tip us off to similar
operations in the future.
A novel and innovative ad fraud threat
3ve was typical of many ad fraud operations in that it
generated revenue by selling forgeries of two major
assets in high demand from advertisers: human audiences
and premium publisher inventory. But because 3ve was
uniquely effective at counterfeiting the domains of
prestigious publishers and sending droves of bots to false
inventory, it was able to generate a substantial volume
of fake ad bid requests. 3ve also operated at a high level
of sophistication that appeared to be a series of unrelated
operations. Its operators constantly adopted new ways
to disguise 3ve’s bots, allowing the operation to continue
growing even after their traffic was blacklisted. Whenever
they were blocked off in one place, they’d reappear
somewhere else.
3ve was typical of many ad fraud operations
in that it generated revenue by selling forgeries
of two major assets in high demand from
advertisers: human audiences and premium
publisher inventory.
The Hunt for 3ve 5
To protect itself against ad fraud, the industry relies
on third party verification solutions like White Ops and
in-house defenses like those implemented by Google.
Collectively, our teams have seen a wide range of botnet
schemes, ad fraud tactics, and invalid activity.