Bait Compression Files
On April 1, 2019, RedDrip discovered a Vietnamese file name "Hop dong sungroup.rar"
in the process of daily monitoring the attack activities of the OceanLotus.
The English version is "Sun Group contract". The compressed package contains
winword.exe which is renamed as “Noi dung chi tiet hop dong sungroup can chinh sua”.
In addition, we are also associated with another package decoy
SUN_GROUP_CORPORATION that translates as "Sun Group Corporation". The file
name in the zip package is as follows:
Noi dung can xac thuc va sua GUI den CONG TY CO PHAN TAP DOAN MAT TROI Bo
Tai chinh. exe
It turned out that Sun City Group was actually one of the largest real estate developers
in Vietnam.
https://ti.qianxin.com/blog/articles/oceanlotus-attacks-to-indochinese-peninsula-evolution-of-targets-techniques-and-procedure/ 2/69
5/9/2019 奇安信威胁情报中心
Both samples were uploaded by Vietnam. Therefore, we speculate that the OceanLotus
Group in the Sun City internal staff fishing attacks.
In addition to targeting the Vietnamese real estate industry, we also found that the group
would conduct phishing attacks against the national bank of Vietnam:
The compressed package of the related samples is called cplh-nhnn-01-209.rar. The
corresponding date of the samples is January 22, 2019, and the attack is most likely to
occur in a similar period.
The Chinese name of the compressed package is: "national bank of Vietnam -- 01
209.rar";The winword. Exe in the package was renamed "chiphilienhoannhnn
bc209.exe", which translated as "state bank of Vietnam sbv-bc 209.exe".
SBV refers to Vietnam's central bank, the state bank of Vietnam (SBV), while BC actually
refers to B2C, or third-party payment.
This attack is likely to be launched against the bank's internal staff, similar to the
document transmission process disguised as a third-party payment within the bank.
In addition, there are anti-virus software related information through the disguise of
fishing.
https://ti.qianxin.com/blog/articles/oceanlotus-attacks-to-indochinese-peninsula-evolution-of-targets-techniques-and-procedure/ 3/69
5/9/2019 奇安信威胁情报中心
Compressed package name: "Gui lai cho MS.MAI post content kaspersky. Rar" (return
MS.MAI post content kaspersky)
We also see oil as a theme for fishing:
"Tinh dau can mua" (essential oil required), the PE file in the package is called "details
about purchase and purchase"