Attribution
48
Who is ultimately in control of the GhostNet system? While our analysis reveals that numerous
politically sensitive and high-value computer systems were compromised, we do not know the
motivation or the identity of the attacker(s) or how to accurately characterize this network of
infections as a whole. We have not been able to ascertain the type of data that has been obtained
by the attacker(s), apart from the basic system information and file listings of the documents
located on the target computers. Without this data we are unable to deduce with any certainty
what kind of data the attacker(s) were after. There are thus several possibilities for attribution.
The most obvious explanation, and certainly the one in which the circumstantial evidence tilts the
strongest, would be that this set of high profile targets has been exploited by the Chinese state for
military and strategic-intelligence purposes. Indeed, as described above, many of the high confidence,
high-value targets that we identified are clearly linked to Chinese foreign and defence policy,
particularly in South and South East Asia. Like radar sweeping around the southern border of China,
there is an arc of infected nodes from India, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Vietnam, through Laos, Brunei,
Philippines, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Many of the high profile targets reflect some of China’s most
vexing foreign and security policy issues, including Tibet and Taiwan. Moreover, the attacker(s)’ IP
addresses examined here trace back in at least several instances to Hainan Island, home of the Lingshui
signals intelligence facility and the Third Technical Department of the People’s Liberation Army. [52]
However, we must be cautious to rush to judgement in spite of circumstantial and other evidence,
as alternative explanations are certainly possible and charges against a government of this nature
are gravely serious. On the other end of the spectrum is the explanation that this is a random set
of infected computers that just happens to include high profile targets of strategic significance
to China, collected by an individual or group with no political agenda per se. Similarly one can
postulate that the targets gathered together happened less by concerted effort than by sheer
coincidence. Given the groupings of various entities in the infected computer list (by country
and organization), internal email communications and sloppy security practices could have led to
cross-infection and subsequent listing on the control servers.
Another possible explanation is that there is a single individual or set of individuals (criminal networks,
for example) who are targeting these high-value targets for profit. This can be in the form of stealing
financial information or critical data that can be sold to clients, be they states or private entities. There
are countless examples of large-scale fraud and data theft worldwide and numerous apparent instances
of outsourcing to third parties of cyber-attacks and espionage, some of which the Information Warfare
Monitor and its related research project, the OpenNet Initiative, have documented. GhostNet could very
well be a for-profit, non-state venture. Even “patriotic hackers” could be acting on their own volition,
or with the tacit approval of their government, as operators of the GhostNet .
Finally, it is not inconceivable that this network of infected computers could have been targeted
by a state other than China, but operated physically within China (and at least one node in
52 http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/china/lingshui.htm
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART THREE
49
the United States) for strategic purposes. Compromised proxy computers on Hainan Island, for
example, could have been deployed as staging posts, perhaps in an effort to deliberately mislead
observers as to the true operator(s) and purpose of the GhostNet system.