BUILDING A DIVERSE AND RESILIENT WORKFORCE
2020 was a tough year in several respects. To protect the
health and safety of the workforce while continuing to achieve
mission success, NSA embraced telework for employees.
NSA’s cybersecurity workforce shifted what could be worked
at an unclassified level to work-from-home, including 100%
of its standards and future technologies organization. NSA’s
cybersecurity workforce maintains 11 other active use
cases approved for unclassified telework, enabling additional
employees to work from home on unclassified activities.
This year, NSA came together to have candid conversations
and reinforce our commitment to diversity and equality
for each employee. In June, NSA Cybersecurity leaders hosted a series of informal
talks to learn more about employees’ personal experiences with inequality. Following
these engagements, we also launched five diversity and inclusion initiatives focused
on advocacy, sponsorship, and hiring. We also increased outreach and recruiting at
historically black colleges and universities. We’re excited about the potential that this
brings to recruit diverse talent into our cybersecurity mission.
Despite the challenges of COVID-19, NSA executed an aggressive hiring and recruitment
campaign to fill skill gaps and maintain the technical health of NSA’s cybersecurity
workforce with diverse, top-notch technical talent. The campaign included virtual
recruitment panels and events.
NSA cybersecurity is comprised of people with many different backgrounds–and we know
that cybersecurity is most effective when we bridge disciplines. So, we closed the year by
launching a peer mentoring program to foster professional networks and development
across our cybersecurity workforce. This program gives employees opportunities to
shadow their peers elsewhere in NSA’s cybersecurity mission, gaining insights into work
they may not be familiar with in their home organizations. Not only does this program
foster a stronger esprit de corps within NSA, it also enhances employees’ understanding
of how their own work is vital to other parts of NSA’s cybersecurity mission.
All of these efforts were underpinned by extensive communications campaigns to
connect, celebrate wins, and drive modernization efforts. NSA cybersecurity leadership
published weekly blogs and videos, with followership that spanned the NSA workforce,
the Intelligence Community, and Five Eyes partners.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW
15
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov