PowerShell
The Security Service of Ukraine has detected Armageddon
using two types of PowerShell scripts.
One of them is designed to obtain information about the
user and the information system, sending it to the command &
control server, loading in response an additional module – the
executable file with its simultaneous hidden start (Figure 9).
Figure 9. PowerShell script example
Another script file contained 4039 lines of program code. At
the same time, PowerShell commands were actually intended to
execute code in the C# programming language. Analysis of this
code showed that its functional purpose was to connect to the
command & control server in the appropriate domain,
retrieve data from it, loaded data into the executable file and to
run it (Figure 10).
Figure 10. PowerShell script example with C#
However, it should be noted that only about 200 lines of
code are actually functional. All other lines are generated only for
distraction, which can be attributed to the program code
obfuscation technic.
In fact, the first stage now lies in downloading the WGET
console utility and scripts to run it, set up persistence for
rebooting by making changes to the registry and/or task
scheduler, as well as collecting information about the system
(computer name, disk name, IP-address, login and password to
access the Proxy) and send the collected information to C2
(Figure 11).
Figure 11. Sending data to command & control server
In many batch files, the use of commands that changed the
values in the registry by
"HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\A
dvanced\Hidden" to "00000002" was noticed, which allows to
hide files and folders from the user. This functionality
corresponds to changing the parameter show hidden files, folders
and drives in the folder settings .
Having created conditions for constant presence in the
system and receiving constant requests from the victim's system,
the group filters bots with the main malicious software.
Also since the end of 2019, Armageddon started to
implement VBSscipts, which completely replaced cmd files later
and became the main scripts for the malware Pterodo
functionality to be deployed in the system, to maintain
persistence and download new specialized modules.
Full usage of VBSscipts group has begun in 2020 and hasn’t
been stopped till this day. The conditions for this are actually
created due to the existence of the CVE 2017-0199 vulnerability.
By examining the code of numerous files and their
relationships, it is possible to draw conclusion aboutthe following
mechanism of compromising the victim's system. The recipient
receives and opens an office electronic document (.docx, .doc, .rtf
format) with a built-in file link to download a remote template. In
response, a template file (.dot) is sent with built-in macros, the
execution of which provides the initial stage of the information
system compromising. This mechanism can be implemented
in MS Word, Exel, PowerPoint (Figure 12).
Figure 12. Built-in reference to download a dot file
As a result, the malicious VBA code deletes the Windows
DNS cache using the ipconfig/flushdns command, decodes the
Base64 strings, places the vbs file in the specified way, writes the
code to it, and finally creates a task in the task scheduler on
behalf of Administrator to run this file using VBS (wscript.exe -
standard Windows utility for executing VBS scripts) with a certain
frequency (for example 5 minutes) every day.
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersi
on\Run\Lnk
At the same time, the settings of Microsoft Office Word for
invisible documents damage are changed in the registry and run
the malware using VBA . Changes occur in the registry branch
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\Version\Word_
_Security with keys AccessVBom and VBAWarnings . By default,
these keys are set to "0" . As a result of unauthorized actions, they
are set to "1" .
This bypassing Microsoft Office by default settings method
is used to automatically run trusted external or untrusted macros
and any VBA code without displaying a security warning or
obtaining user permission. Besides, any victim that allows
macros to run once from a malicious file will be opened to macrobased attacks. The victim will unknowingly distribute the same
malicious code among other users, transferring infected office
documents from one system to another.
The vbs file is started at login due to the corresponding
values from the autostart branch of the registry
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersi
on\Run
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersi
on\RunOnce
As a result of startup, a unique user agent is generated,
which transmits data on the computer name and serial number of
the system disk (HEX-value) to the command and control server
(according to the domain name defined in the code).
In case of a failed request, the script code provides the
ability to search for actual C2 IP-address by known domain
(Figure 13) and repeats the query at the following link http://{IP
address domain name at runtime}/php file name . If the server
responds successfully, the received data is written to a new
executable file.
Figure 13. Resolving domain to IP
It should be noted that the new file has the same name and
location as the previous one, so it checks its existence before
code will be written. If present, the previous file is deleted. The
same names are misleading because the contents of all the files
are different.
The analysis of other scripts revealed the following
additional functionality:


checking the mshta.exe process in the list of running
processes and terminating it;


suspending its work for some time/random period in the
range, determining start time and complete stop;


checking for a process with the same name in the list
of running processes and finishing it;

repeating the cycle laid down in the file, which allows you
to download and run almost any file in the system and
provides full control over the system;



checking the file size before start and in case of
conformity to conditions, the file is started;


searching for all available disks with letters from
"D" to "Z";


checking for the possibility of creating and executing
processes, as well as the presence of a connection to the
Internet and to the command & control server of attackers;


downloading tasks from the task scheduler .


It should be noted that along with vbs files, lnk shortcut files
can be downloaded to the victim's computer, which use open
folder icons from the shell32.dll library with id = 126 and contain
links to download and execute C2 files using program mshta.exe .
The investigation also came across html files capable of
creating malicious vbs scripts and simultaneous entries in the
registry branch
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVeris
on\Run\Lnk to execute them.
Also among the aspects of the group's work the use of PE
files should be noted, which require a text file format .txt, with a
list of command and control servers of attackers.
When a PE file is executed, it connects to the first C2
address in the list, which loads any executable file that is stored
in %Temp% and starts its execution. The file name consists of 8
random characters with
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
0123456789 +.exe.
The second address from the txt file is used to update the
list of attackers' command and control servers. This functionality
is used when it is not possible to connect to the first address in
the list. However, as mentioned before, if necessary, the link is
changed to the current IP address to reconnect.