Background
APT10 is a threat actor that has been active since at least 2009. It has historically
targeted healthcare, defense, aerospace, government, heavy industry and mining, and
MSPs and IT services, as well as other sectors, for probable intellectual property theft.
In early 2017, APT10 began conducting attacks against global managed IT service
providers (MSPs) that granted them unprecedented access to MSPs and their
customers’ networks. During this operation (dubbed “‘Cloud Hopper” because of the
group’s use of popular western cloud-based services), APT10 utilized both new
malware (Quasar RAT, Trochilus, RedLeaves, ChChes) as well as some familiar old tools
(Poison Ivy, PlugX).
Most recently, on December 20, 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice charged two
hackers associated with the Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS) with global
computer intrusion campaigns targeting intellectual property. This indictment
attributed the intrusions to APT10, a group that had been conducting the malicious
activities for over a decade on behalf of the MSS, China’s civilian human intelligence
agency. Some of the material included within the indictment corroborated information
detailed in the Intrusion Truth blog that provided strong evidence attributing APT10 to
the Tianjin State Security Bureau, a provincial bureau of the Ministry of State Security.
In the blog, Intrusion Truth identified APT10 as having utilized several Tianjin-based
companies, including Huaying Haitai Science and Technology Development Co. Ltd.
and Laoying Baichen Instruments Equipment Co. Ltd.
5/21
U.S. Department of Justice indictment of APT10 threat actors. (Source: www.justice.gov)
The use of suspected shell companies as a front for MSS-enabled cyber activity isn’t a
new observation, however. Our research from 2017 concluded that Guangdong ITSEC
(and therefore the MSS) directed the activities of a company named Boyusec, which
was identified as a shell company for APT3.
Suspected Tianjin State Security Bureau headquarters. (Source: IntrusionTruth)
The December APT10 indictment noted that the group’s malicious activities breached
at least 45 companies and managed service providers in 12 countries, including Brazil,
Canada, Finland, France, Germany, India, Japan, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Arab
6/21
Emirates, the United Kingdom, and the United States.