Attacks in Russia
The first successful bank robbery was committed
by this group in January 2013. In all first cases the
attackers used the program RDPdoor for remote
access to the bank network and the program “MBR
Eraser” to remove traces and to crack Windows
computers and servers. Both programs were used by
the members of the Carberp criminal group under
the guidance of a person named Germes. To reduce
the risk of losing access to the internal bank network
the attackers, in addition to malicious programs,
were also used for remote access legitimate programs such as Ammy Admin and Team Viewer. Later the attackers completely abandoned from usage
of RDPdoor and Team Viewer.
In addition to banking and payment systems,
hackers got access to e-mail servers to control all
internal communications. This approach allowed
them to find out that the anomalous activity in the
bank network was identified, what technique was
used to identify this activity and what measures the
bank employees took to solve the problem. Email
control was successfully installed regardless of used
email system, MS Exchange or Lotus. This approach
allowed them to take countermeasures that created
for bank and payment system employees the feeling
that the problem had been solved.
The main steps of the attack progression are the
following ones:


Primary infection of an ordinary employee
computer.


Getting a password of a user with administrative rights on some computers. For example, a
password of a technical support engineer.


Gaining legitimate access to one server.


Compromising the domain administrator
password from the server.


Gaining access to the domain controller and
compromising of all active domain accounts.


Gaining access to e-mail and workflow servers.


Gaining access to server and banking system
administrator workstations.


Installing the software to monitor activity of
interesting system operators. Usually photo
and video recording was used.


Configuring remote access to servers of interest including firewall configuration changes.

