ATTRIBUTION AND STATE-SPONSORSHIP
Attribution is always a difficult question, but attempting
to answer it is important in understanding these types of
threats and how to defend against them. This paper has
already stated that we believe the Dukes to be a Russian
state-sponsored cyberespionage operation. To reach
this conclusion, we began by analyzing the apparent
objectives and motivations of the group.
Based on what we currently know about the targets
chosen by the Dukes over the past 7 years, they appear to
have consistently targeted entities that deal with foreign
policy and security policy matters. These targets have
included organizations such as ministries of foreign affairs,
embassies, senates, parliaments, ministries of defense,
defense contractors, and think tanks.
In one of their more intriguing cases, the Dukes have
appeared to also target entities involved in the trafficking
of illegal drugs. Even such targets however appear to be
consistent with the overarching theme, given the drug
trade’s relevance to security policy. Based on this, we
are confident in our conclusion that the Dukes’ primary
mission is the collection of intelligence to support foreign
and security policy decision-making.
This naturally leads to the question of state-sponsorship.
Based on our establishment of the group’s primary
mission, we believe the main benefactor (or benefactors)
of their work is a government. But are the Dukes a team
or a department inside a government agency? An external
contractor? A criminal gang selling to the highest bidder?
A group of tech-savvy patriots? We don’t know.
Based on the length of the Dukes’ activity, our estimate of
the amount of resources invested in the operation and the
fact that their activity only appears to be increasing, we
believe the group to have significant and most critically,
stable financial backing. The Dukes have consistently
operated large-scale campaigns against high-profile
targets while concurrently engaging in smaller, more
targeted campaigns with apparent coordination and no
evidence of unintentional overlap or operational clashes.
We therefore believe the Dukes to be a single, large,
well-coordinated organization with clear separation of
responsibilities and targets.
The Dukes appear to prioritize the continuation of
their operations over stealth. Their 2015 CozyDuke
and CloudDuke campaigns take this to the extreme by
apparently opting for speed and quantity over stealth and
quality. In the most extreme case, the Dukes continued
with their July 2015 CloudDuke campaign even after their
activity had been outed by multiple security vendors.
We therefore believe the Dukes’ primary mission to be
so valuable to their benefactors that its continuation
outweighs everything else.
This apparent disregard for publicity suggests, in our
opinion, that the benefactors of the Dukes is so powerful
and so tightly connected to the group that the Dukes are
able to operate with no apparent fear of repercussions
on getting caught. We believe the only benefactor with
the power to offer such comprehensive protection would
be the government of the nation from which the group
operates. We therefore believe the Dukes to work either
within or directly for a government, thus ruling out the
possibility of a criminal gang or another third party.
This leaves us with the final question: which country?
We are unable to conclusively prove responsibility of
any specific country for the Dukes. All of the available
evidence however does in our opinion suggest that the
group operates on behalf of the Russian Federation.
Further, we are currently unaware of any evidence
disproving this theory.
Kaspersky Labs has previously noted the presence of
Russian-language artefacts in some of the Duke malware
samples [ [9]] . We have also found a Russian-language
error message in many PinchDuke samples: “ Ошибка
названия модуля! Название секции данных должно
быть 4 байта! ” This roughly translates as, “There is an
error in the module’s name! The length of the data section
name must be 4 bytes!”
Additionally, Kaspersky noted that based on the
compilation timestamps, the authors of the Duke malware
appear to primarily work from Monday to Friday between
the times of 6am and 4pm UTC+0 [[11]] . This corresponds
to working hours between 9am and 7pm in the UTC+3
time zone, also known as Moscow Standard Time, which
covers, among others, much of western Russia, including
Moscow and St. Petersburg.
Over 7 years of Russian cyberespionage THE DUKES
27
The Kaspersky Labs analysis of the Duke malware authors’
working times is supported by our own analysis, as well
as that performed by FireEye [[22]] . This assertion of time
zone is also supported by timestamps found in many
GeminiDuke samples, which similarly suggest the group
work in the Moscow Standard Time timezone, as further
detailed in the section on the technical analysis of
GeminiDuke (page 17).
Finally, the known targets of the Dukes - Eastern European
foreign ministries, western think tanks and governmental
organizations, even Russian-speaking drug dealers conform to publicly-known Russian foreign policy and
security policy interests. Even though the Dukes appear
to have targeted governments all over the world, we are
unaware of them ever targeting the Russian government.
While absence of evidence is not evidence of absence, it is
an interesting detail to note.
Based on the presented evidence and analysis, we believe,
with a high level of confidence, that the Duke toolsets are
the product of a single, large, well-resourced organization
(which we identify as the Dukes) that provides the Russian
government with intelligence on foreign and security
policy matters in exchange for support and protection.
THE DUKES Over 7 years of Russian cyberespionage
28