Step 5: Mapping out the Infrastructure and Operational Activity
Reconstructing the Infrastructure
In order to make sense of all the data, we fed it into multiple threat intelligence sources, including
our own and third parties.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 16/21
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
⚠ Note: Since we cannot share any IOCs, we will refer to file hashes, hostnames, IP
addresses and other IOCs as generic placeholders.
Hostname1 is the hostname that was used for the C2 server targeting the telecommunications
providers.
Hostname1 connected to multiple tools.
In analyzing the files, it is clear they are all contacting the same host hostname1. hostname1 was
the C2 server that the malware and web shells connected to.
Once we determined the hashes in the scope of the attack were only connecting to hostname1,
which is a dynamic DNS hostname, we looked to see if we could find more information about the
C2 server.
A simple WHOIS query revealed that the IP address was registered to a colocation hosting
company in Asia, though there was no other publicly available information about this IP address.
By querying all of our threat intel resources about this IP address, we discovered that it was
associated with multiple dynamic DNS hostnames.
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
Multiple dynamic DNS hostnames.
We were unable to find indications of connections to Dynamic.DNS2 and Dynamic.DNS3.
However, they were registered and associated with IP.Address1 .
For the other dynamic DNS hosts, we leveraged various threat intel repositories and crafted
queries that searched for executables with these IP addresses and hostnames in their string
table. One of the queries returned a few DLLs with identical names to the DLL we had initially
investigated. However, the hashes were different. After obtaining the found DLLs, we patched
them back into the NSIS installer and detonated the samples in our testing environment. Dynamic
analysis of the newly obtained DLLs revealed a new set of domains and IP addresses that were
completely different. These domains were actually related to different telecommunications
providers.
⚠ Note: Cybereason immediately reached out to those telecommunications providers and
provided them all of the necessary information to handle the incident internally.
Strings from the dumped memory section of the injected shellcode. We can see many details
about the attack including domains and C2 server IP addresses.
Shellcode being unpacked and injected into a remote process. The redacted segments contain
the name of the customer, C2 IP addresses, and domains.
Infrastructure Operational Security
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 18/21
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
The threat actor’s infrastructure.
The threat actor had a specific pattern of behavior that allowed us to understand their modus
operandi: they used one server with the same IP address for multiple operations. This server is a
key component in their ‘non-attributable’ infrastructure.
The threat actor separated operations by using different hostnames per operation, though they
are hosted on the same server and IP address. The domains and server registration information
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 19/21
pointed to three main countries: China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan.
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
This is cheap and efficient for the threat actor, but is almost transparent for a seasoned
researcher with access to the right threat intelligence tools. There are previous reports of threat
actors including APT10 and APT1 using dynamic DNS.
Monitoring this infrastructure gave us information about if and when the threat actor was starting
new waves of the attack or additional attacks on other providers.
When researching C2 servers, it is important to watch for:
Association with domains, especially if they are dynamic DNS domains.
File hashes that are associated with the IP address or the domain of the C2 server.
Static information and metadata from associated samples that could be used to
broaden the search after additional information is gathered.
This demonstrates the importance of proper operational security and a separation between tools
and operations for threat actors.