REMOTE MANIPULATOR SYSTEM (RMS)
Remote Manipulator System (RMS) is a legitimate remote administration tool developed by a Russian
organization ‘TektonIT’ and has been observed in campaigns conducted by TA505 as well as numerous
smaller campaigns likely attributable to other, disparate, threat actors. In addition to the availability of
commercial licences, the tool is free for non-commercial use and supports the remote administration of
both Microsoft Windows and Android devices.
Figure 30 – TektonIT RMS (rmansys.ru/remoteutilities.com)
As to be expected when dealing with cybercriminals, ‘cracked’ versions of RMS also appear to be distributed
on underground forums and likely remove licencing restrictions.
Negating the need for a threat actor to develop their own tools, RMS features include remote control with
multi-monitor support, task manager, file transfer, command line interface, network mapping capabilities
and webcam/microphone access, all of which are common traits of a well-developed remote access
trojan (RAT). These features, coupled with the ability to install and operate the tool silently, make RMS an
attractive off-the-shelf solution for ‘abuse’ by both sophisticated and unsophisticated threat actors alike.
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
In addition to RMS implementing its own remote desktop capabilities, which are compressed and encrypted,
the Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) is also supported and as such could facilitate the control of
‘ServHelper’ compromised devices.
Notably, whilst most malicious RATs would need to call home to the threat actor’s command and control
(C2) infrastructure, RMS includes an ‘Internet-ID’ feature which calls home to the developers’ servers and
sends a notification via email (Figure 31), further reducing attack complexity for less sophisticated threat
actors.
Within this notification email, the victim’s username and device name is provided along with the internet
ID and password required for remote administration.
Alternatively, and seemingly favour by more sophisticated threat actors such as TA505, a self-hosted
option is supported by RMS and allows them to configure their own ‘Remote Utilities’ (RU) Server. This RU
Server supports three roles that can be deployed individually or together, although only one, the ‘Relay
Server’, would likely be utilised in nefarious implementations. This Relay Server acts as an intermediary
with ‘compromised’ RMS clients calling-home to it and identifying themselves with their ‘Internet-ID’
facilitating communications that allow firewalls and NAT devices to be bypassed.
The additional roles, ‘Authorization Server’, supporting the management of access permissions, and
‘Sync Server’, synchronising address books, are likely only deployed in legitimate environments such as
corporate IT support teams.
16
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS