Ransomware attackers raise the stakes
Ransomware affects an accelerating number of victims with every passing year,
but it has an Achilles' heel: encryption is a time consuming process, driven by
the processing power of its host machine's CPU. It takes time for suitably strong
encryption algorithms to securely encrypt the data on whole hard drives. In the
case of ransomware, the application is at least as concerned with optimizing its
attack and evading detection by modern security tools as it is with encrypting.
With evasion a priority, many ransomware-deploying attackers seem to have
developed a keen understanding of how network and endpoint security products
detect or block malicious activity. Ransomware attacks almost always begin with
an attempt to thwart security controls, though with varying levels of success.
Attackers have also discovered that these attacks, once perpetrated, have
a greater chance to earn a ransom payment when the attack takes out just
enough unrecoverable data to make it worth the victim's ransom demand.
While the purpose of ransomware is always the same – to hold
your documents hostage – it is a lot easier to change a malware’s
appearance (obfuscate its code) than to change its purpose or behavior.
Modern ransomware relies on obfuscation for its success.
In addition, ransomware may be compiled for a single victim, protected by
a unique password or run only in a certain timeframe. This further hinders
both automated sandbox analysis as well as manual reverse engineering
by human threat researchers to determine the purpose of the sample.
But there are other behaviors or traits to ransomware that modern security
software can zero in on to help determine if an application has or is showing
malicious actions. Some traits are hard for attackers to change, like the
successive encryption of documents. But some traits can be changed
or added, and this helps ransomware to confuse some anti-ransomware
protection. These are just a few of these behavioral trends we've observed.