Interactions With Compromised Microsoft Exchange Server
To determine the actor’s activities regarding the compromised Exchange server of a Kuwaiti
organization, we collected IIS server logs from the Exchange server and the logs generated for the
system by Cortex XDR. Within the IIS logs, we were able to observe the HTTP POST requests
generated when the actor issued commands via the BumbleBee webshell installed on the
compromised Exchange server. Using the IIS logs, we were also able to observe the actor logging
into a compromised email account via Outlook Web App and carrying out specific activities once
logged in, such as viewing emails and searching for other email accounts on the compromised
network.
Unfortunately, the compromised Exchange server cannot log the data within the POST requests, so
while we know how many commands were issued from these logs, we do not know the actual
commands that the actor executed. Also, we were only able to collect 34 days’ worth of logs from the
period between Jan. 31, 2020, and Sept. 16, 2020, which did not include all the IIS logs from the
compromised Exchange server. Due to these large gaps in logs, we do not have a complete picture of
the activity or even visibility into the beginning of the actor’s interactions with the compromised
Exchange server. For example, the IIS logs show the first BumbleBee webshell activity on Feb. 1,
2020, but they also show the TriFive backdoor logging into a compromised email account every five
minutes starting at 12:02 AM UTC on Jan. 31, 2020. The TriFive beacons every five minutes suggest
it was repeatedly running via the scheduled task discussed in our previous blog on the backdoors
related to this incident, which also suggests that the actor had already gained sustained access to the
compromised Exchange server before what our collected logs show.
Using the IIS logs we were able to collect from the compromised Exchange server, we were able to
put together a timeline of the actor’s activity, including interactions with the BumbleBee webshell.
On Feb. 1 and July 27, 2020, the actor logged into the Exchange server via Outlook Web App using
compromised credentials. The actor used the search functionality within Outlook Web App to search
for email addresses, including searching for the domain name of the compromised Kuwaiti
organization to get a full list of email addresses, as well as specific keywords, such as helpdesk. We
also saw the actor viewing emails in the compromised account’s inbox, specifically emails from
service providers and technology vendors. Additionally, the actor viewed alert emails from a
Symantec product and Fortinet’s FortiWeb product. The act of searching for emails to the helpdesk
and viewing security alert emails suggests that the threat actor was interested in determining
whether the Kuwaiti organization had become aware of the malicious activities.
In regard to the BumbleBee webshell activity, the important pieces of information in the IIS logs
used to generate a timeline were:
Timestamp of the HTTP requests.
Actor’s IP address.
User-agent in HTTP request provides the actor’s operating system and browser version.
ClientId in the URL parameters is a unique identifier for the client provided by the Exchange
server via a server-side cookie.
Table 1 in the Appendix provides the timeline of activity regarding the actor’s use of the BumbleBee
webshell, which began on Feb. 1, 2020, according to the logs we were able to collect. While creating
this timeline, we noticed a few interesting observables and behaviors exhibited by the actor when
4/18
interacting with BumbleBee, including:
All but one of the IP addresses used by the actor are associated with a VPN provided by Private
Internet Access, with the other IP address belonging to FalcoVPN.
The actor switched between VPN servers in different locations to change IP address and to
appear to originate from different countries, specifically Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The actor used a combination of operating systems and browsers when interacting with
BumbleBee, specifically FireFox ( ) or Chrome ( ) on Windows 10 ( ),
Windows 8.1 ( ) or Linux systems ( ).