Staying ahead of threat actors in the age of AI
microsoft.com /en-us/security/blog/2024/02/14/staying-ahead-of-threat-actors-in-the-age-of-ai
By Microsoft Threat Intelligence
February 14, 2024
Over the last year, the speed, scale, and sophistication of attacks has increased
alongside the rapid development and adoption of AI. Defenders are only beginning to
recognize and apply the power of generative AI to shift the cybersecurity balance in their
favor and keep ahead of adversaries. At the same time, it is also important for us to
understand how AI can be potentially misused in the hands of threat actors. In
collaboration with OpenAI, today we are publishing research on emerging threats in the
age of AI, focusing on identified activity associated with known threat actors, including
prompt-injections, attempted misuse of large language models (LLM), and fraud. Our
analysis of the current use of LLM technology by threat actors revealed behaviors
consistent with attackers using AI as another productivity tool on the offensive landscape.
You can read OpenAI’s blog on the research here. Microsoft and OpenAI have not yet
observed particularly novel or unique AI-enabled attack or abuse techniques resulting
from threat actors’ usage of AI. However, Microsoft and our partners continue to study this
landscape closely.
The objective of Microsoft’s partnership with OpenAI, including the release of this
research, is to ensure the safe and responsible use of AI technologies like ChatGPT,
upholding the highest standards of ethical application to protect the community from
potential misuse. As part of this commitment, we have taken measures to disrupt assets
and accounts associated with threat actors, improve the protection of OpenAI LLM
technology and users from attack or abuse, and shape the guardrails and safety
mechanisms around our models. In addition, we are also deeply committed to using
generative AI to disrupt threat actors and leverage the power of new tools, including
Microsoft Copilot for Security, to elevate defenders everywhere.