Confucius says… resolve your command and control domains using web services.
In 2013, Rapid7 reported on a series of relatively amateur attacks against Pakistani
targets. For a long time after the report was published, little changed in how the
attackers operated. Although many of the attacks we see today from the group remain
the same, we began observing a new backdoor, CONFUCIUS_A, being dropped by the
attackers starting in early 2014. Specifically, the command and control addresses used
across multiple SNEEPY samples were being used by CONFUCIUS_A samples. In the
case of just one or two samples, without temporal overlap, this may not be deemed a
strong link to CONFUCIUS_A, however it occurs across a great deal of the infrastructure
we have observed.
In most cases where we have been able to identify the droppers, the attack begins with
an executable file being sent directly to targets via e-mail. Occasionally the attackers
leverage builders for known document exploits, but most of the time they still use self
extracting binaries. The themes of the phishing e-mails vary according to the target, but
invariably the file is compiled with an icon that matches the expected content. Examples
of the themes used in attacks using CONFUCIUS_A and the surrounding cluster of
activity include:
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/unit42-confucius-says-malware-families-get-further-by-abusing-legitimate-websites/ 1/15
5/29/2019 Confucius Says...Malware Families Get Further By Abusing Legitimate Websites
Invitations to events relevant to the recipients
Pornographic material
Fake updates to popular software products
News content
Political content
We have limited evidence of who the targets are, but they appear to primarily be based
in the Middle East and parts of Asia, with a focus on Pakistan. In addition to those
targets, there are occasional targets seen at enterprises across the globe.
Early samples of the CONFUCIUS_A malware did not use any legitimate web services
for DNS resolution; however, more recent samples of the CONFUCIUS_A malware use
a range of legitimate web services to resolve command and control addresses, the
highest profile of which are Yahoo and Quora. The malware was given its name based
on the content of one of the first pages we saw being retrieved to determine a command
and control address, which is written in the style of a ‘Confucius says’ joke. See Figure 1.
Figure 1 – An example of Quora page contacted by the malware.
Sometimes malware communicates with legitimate web services simply to perform a
connectivity check, but in this case the page was too specific to suggest that was what
the attackers were doing. So we decided to investigate how the malware processed the
resulting content.