Finding the needle in the haystack
This doesn’t mean espionage attacks are now going undiscovered, but it does mean that
they can take longer for analysts to investigate. This is one of the reasons why Symantec
created Targeted Attack Analytics (TAA), which takes tools and capabilities that we’ve
developed for our own analysts and makes them available to our Advanced Threat
Protection (ATP) customers. TAA leverages advanced artificial intelligence and machine
learning that combs through Symantec’s data lake of telemetry in order to spot patterns
associated with targeted attacks. Its advanced AI automates what previously would have
taken thousands of hours of analyst time. This makes it far easier for us, and for our
customers, to find that needle in the haystack.
It was TAA that led us to the latest cyber espionage campaign we’ve uncovered. Back in
January 2018, TAA triggered an alert at a large telecoms operator in Southeast Asia. An
attacker was using PsExec to move laterally between computers on the company’s
network. PsExec is a Microsoft Sysinternals tool for executing processes on other systems
and is one of the most frequently seen legitimate pieces of software used by attackers
attempting to live off the land. However, it’s also widely used for legitimate purposes,
meaning malicious use of PsExec can be difficult to spot.
TAA not only flagged this malicious use of PsExec, it also told us what the attackers were
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
using it for. They were attempting to remotely install a previously unknown piece of
malware on computers within the victim’s network. When we analyzed the malware, we
discovered that it was an updated version of Trojan.Rikamanu, malware associated with
Thrip, a group we’ve been monitoring since 2013. After further investigation, we discovered
that Thrip also used a completely new piece of malware in this attack
(Infostealer.Catchamas).
Figure 1. Targeted Attack Analytics leverages machine learning to spot malicious activity
associated with targeted attacks and alerts the customer.
Armed with this information about the malware and living off the land tactics being used
against this victim, we broadened our search to see if we could find similar patterns that
indicated Thrip had been targeting other organizations. We uncovered a wide-ranging cyber
espionage campaign involving powerful malware being used against targets that are a
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
cause for concern.
We identified three computers in China being used to launch the Thrip attacks. Thrip’s
motive is likely espionage and its targets include those in the communications, geospatial
imaging, and defense sectors, both in the United States and Southeast Asia.