Executive Summary
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group has continued to observe Russian state actors increasing efforts to
conceal command-and-control network traffic via legitimate internet services (LIS) and to diversify the
number of services being misused in support of this effort. BlueBravo is a threat group tracked by Insikt
Group whose activity overlaps with that of the Russian advanced persistent threat (APT) groups
tracked as APT29 and Midnight Blizzard. APT29 and Midnight Blizzard operations have been previously
attributed to Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), an organization responsible for foreign
espionage, active measures, and electronic surveillance.
In January 2023, we released a public report describing how BlueBravo employed a theme suggestive
of an ambassador’s schedule in order to deliver malware we dubbed GraphicalNeutrino. In this activity
we found that the group employed several consistent tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs): the
use of compromised infrastructure, the employment of related known malware families, the periodic use
of third-party services for command-and-control (C2), and the reuse of general themes for lures.
In addition to the identified TTPs, we also analyzed a novel malware variant used by BlueBravo, tracked
by Insikt Group as GraphicalProton. GraphicalProton acts as a loader and, much like previously
described samples of GraphicalNeutrino, is staged within an ISO or ZIP file and relies on the newly
identified compromised domains for delivery to targeted hosts. Unlike GraphicalNeutrino, which
employed note-taking web application Notion for C2, the newly identified GraphicalProton sample uses
Microsoft's OneDrive for C2 communication. The misuse of LIS by BlueBravo is a continuation of its
previous tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), as it has employed multiple online services such
as Trello, Firebase, and Dropbox in an attempt to evade detection. As a result, it is imperative for
network defenders to be aware of the possibility of the misuse of these services within their enterprise
and to recognize instances in which they may be used in similar efforts to exfiltrate information.
Although we do not have direct visibility into the targeted entities, we can infer from the lure themes
and linguistic artifacts that the Russian government is likely prioritizing cyber-espionage efforts against
government sector entities in Europe, at present. The need for information from these sectors and
regions is likely driven by the Russian government’s need for strategic data to facilitate its long-term
survival during and after the war in Ukraine.
Based on observed trends associated with malware and infrastructure development throughout the first
half of 2023, we assess that it is likely BlueBravo will adapt and iterate upon existing malware families
to develop new variants and will continue to leverage third-party services as necessary to obfuscate C2
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
2
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | RUSSIA
communications. The use of legitimate website compromise as one approach to malware delivery via
HTML smuggling, as well as the use of PHP code for delivery, are recently observed approaches to the
infection chain.
Due to how adaptive and evolving BlueBravo has been since 2022, tracking the group must also be an
adaptive and evolving process and requires that the organizations most likely to be its victims invest
additional time and resources. This includes those within the government sector and other
organizations that Russian state actors are likely to deem of interest in furthering their geopolitical
interests surrounding the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Defenders should detect, block, and hunt for the
indicators and behaviors referenced in connection with BlueBravo reporting via the Recorded Future®
Intelligence Cloud in network monitoring, intrusion detection systems, firewalls, and any associated
perimeter security appliances.