Electromagnetic Warfare Reprogramming
This appendix provides general procedures in conducting electromagnetic warfare
reprogramming, divided into four phases. It will also describe the three major
categories of electromagnetic warfare reprogramming and associated actions. It will
also discuss the joint coordination of electromagnetic warfare reprogramming.
PURPOSE OF ELECTROMAGNETIC REPROGRAMMING
F-1. The purpose of EW reprogramming is to maintain or enhance the effectiveness of EW and TSS
equipment. EW reprogramming includes changes to self-defense systems, offensive weapons systems, and
intelligence collection systems. Each Army unit is responsible for reprogramming of EW and TSS equipment
using an established EW reprogramming support program.
F-2. Units from all Service components that identify threat signature changes report those changes through
higher headquarters to the CCMD of the AOR in which they are conducting operations. The Service
intelligence production center [National Ground Intelligence Center for the Army]; and Service equipment
support for effected EW and TSS equipment.
F-3. The CCMD ensures promulgating the threat signature changes worldwide and to Service components
operating through the AOR using joint coordination electromagnetic warfare reprogramming policies and
procedures developed by the Joint Staff. The Intelligence Production Center collects the data to process and
analyze to identify and understand the threat signature change. Service equipment support conducts flagging
activities while analyzing EW and TSS equipment for compatibility and system impact assessment.
Note. EW reprogramming is only required for EW and targeting sensing software that operate
using downloads of threat signatures. With these systems, EW reprogramming occurs when threat
signatures have changed. Dynamic EW capabilities do not require downloads of threat signatures
and thus do not require EW reprogramming.
CATEGORIES OF ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE
REPROGRAMMING
F-4. Several types of changes constitute EW reprogramming. These changes fall into three major categories
of EW reprogramming. They are –
 Tactics. Include changes in procedures, equipment, settings, or EW systems mission-planning
data. These changes are usually conducted at the Service level and implemented at the unit level
using organic personnel and equipment.
 Software. Include changes to the programming of computer-based EW and target sensing
software. This type of change requires software vendors to alter programmed look-up tables, threat
libraries, or signal sorting routines.
 Hardware. Hardware changes or long-term system development are necessary due to tactics and
software changes installed to resolve deficiencies. These changes usually occur tactical, and
software changes are of such complexity that it requires hardware modifications or upgrades.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 F-1
Appendix F
E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE R EPROGRAMMING A CTIONS
F-5. During a crisis or enemy EA, EW reprogramming provides commanders with a timely capability to
respond to threat systems changes and correct EW and targeting sensing systems. Through EW
reprogramming, commanders can also adjust EW, TSS deficiencies and tailor EW and TSS to meet unique
mission requirements. EW reprogramming enables this capability using three different EW reprogramming
actions, either individually or simultaneously. These reprogramming actions are–
 Threat changes. Any changes in the operation or electromagnetic signature of a threat system.
The design of EW reprogramming is to respond to threat changes that affect EW’s combat
effectiveness and TSS.
 Geographic tailoring. The reprogramming of EW and targeting sensing systems for operations
in a specific area or region of the world. Geographic tailoring reduces the number of system
memory threats, decreasing systems processing time, and reducing error displays.
 Mission tailoring. The reprogramming of EW and targeting sensing systems for the mission of
the host platform. Mission tailoring may improve system response to the priority threat(s)
identified by the host platform.
G ENERAL E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE R EPROGRAMMING P ROCESS
F-6. There are four phases to the EW reprogramming process. Units can further refine the last three phases
of the EW reprogramming process to meet their unique requirements. The four phases of the EW
reprogramming process are—
 Determine the threat.
 Determine the response.
 Create a change.
 Implement the change.
Determine the Threat
F-7. When determining the threat, units develop and maintain an accurate description of the EMOE,
specifically threat systems and tactics. Document submitted IRs to maintain an accurate description of the
EMOE at all times. IRs are important since EW and TSS equipment are each programmed to identify and
respond to a particular threat or target signature data. An accurate description of the EMOE requires the
fusion of known electromagnetic data with the collection, analysis, and validation of threat signature changes
divided into three steps:
 Collect data. Threat signature data collection is the collection of threat system parametric
information and is the responsibility of the G-2 or S-2. The collection of signature data may be a
matter of routine intelligence collection against targeted systems. Other data collection may occur
because of urgent intelligence production requests. Regardless of the purpose of collection,
signature data disseminates through the intelligence channels to the National Ground Intelligence
Center and the EW and TSS Service equipment support channels for analysis and flagging
activities.
 Identify changes. EW and TSS Service equipment support analyzes the collected data for
compatibility. Incompatible data is flagged for further analysis and system impact assessment. The
National Ground Intelligence Center uses the collected data for processing and analysis to identify
threat signature changes in the EMOE. Identified changes are further analyzed.
 Validate changes. Once an identified signature change is correlated to a threat system and
analyzed, it is further analyzed to validate an actual system capability change or determine it as a
probable malfunction. Information on threat system engineering and tactical employment are
critical during this step. The National Ground Intelligence Center or the Defense Intelligence
Agency(s) typically provide technical analysis and validation of threat changes. At the joint level,
the CCMD must provide the identification, technical description, and analysis of threat change
validation messages expeditiously to component commands and Service reprogramming centers
[Army Reprogramming Analysis Team for the Army].
F-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Electromagnetic Warfare Reprogramming
Determine the Response
F-8. Service reprogramming centers assess validated threat change information for its impact on friendly
EW and TSS equipment. A decision to initiate a reprogramming change is determined. The equipment may
fail to provide appropriate indications and warnings or countermeasures in response to a threat change. In
this instance, the Service reprogramming center determines if the requirement to correct the deficiency is
either by changing tactics, software, or hardware.
F-9. Service equipment support generates a system impact message that informs CCMDs and component
commands of the threat change’s operational impact on EW and TSS equipment performance. The CCMDs
forward the system impact message through the JTF headquarters to subordinate units. The system impact
message often includes recommendations to respond to each identified threat change appropriately; however,
each unit is ultimately responsible for determining the appropriate response action to a validated threat
change.
Create the Change
F-10. The unit develops tactics, software, or hardware changes to regain or improve equipment performance
and combat effectiveness. The first option to consider when creating a change is in using tactics to avoid the
threat. Tactical change is typically the first option because software and hardware changes require time that
may not be readily available. Units are ultimately responsible for initiating tactical change as the initial
change to continue operations until software and hardware changes are made available by the Service
equipment support.
F-11. A combination of changes (such as tactics and software) often provides an immediate and long-term
fix to equipment deficiencies. Software and hardware changes require assistance from the EW and TSS
Service equipment support. Service equipment support conducts reprogramming support activities to verify
equipment combat effectiveness through modeling and simulation, bench tests, or test range employments
simulating operational conditions.
Implement the Change
F-12. Implementation of the change ensures units regain or attain enhanced combat effectiveness by tactics,
software, or hardware change(s). CCMDs ensure subordinate units successfully incorporate tactics changes
into mission pre-briefs. Service equipment support collaborates with other Services to install electronic and
mechanical software and hardware changes to host EW and TSS equipment.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 F-3