CHINA
↘
Chinese adversaries
enhanced their
cyber capabilities
through ongoing
tool development
and sharing, while
maintaining their status
as one of the most
prolific state-sponsored
cyber actors on the
planet.
By all accounts, 2020 was a challenging year for Beijing. The outbreak of
COVID-19 — with Wuhan as its epicenter — and managing the fallout of its global
spread consumed much of the Chinese Communist Party's (CCP) efforts. A brief
reduction in activity from Wuhan-based adversaries demonstrated that COVID-19
had a tactical impact as well as a strategic one. The outbreak was coupled with an
increasingly aggressive trade war with the U.S., limiting Chinese firms’ access to
critical technologies such as semiconductors, while at the same time levying high
tariffs on goods destined for foreign markets.
China-based adversaries continued targeted operations throughout 2020 that
largely aligned with historic focuses on espionage, intellectual property theft
and surveillance. Chinese adversaries enhanced their cyber capabilities through
ongoing tool development and sharing, while maintaining their status as one of the
most prolific state-sponsored cyber actors on the planet. CrowdStrike observed
intrusions by at least 11 named Chinese adversaries and seven suspected China
origin activity clusters, with operations aligning with the objectives outlined in the
13th Five-Year Plan (13FYP). As such, a wide range of sectors were targeted, with
particular attention paid to organizations in the telecommunications, government,
healthcare and technology sectors. A focus on the telecommunications sector in
particular was a continuation from the trend observed in 2019; named adversaries
targeting telecommunications organizations in 2020 included WICKED PANDA,
CIRCUIT PANDA and PHANTOM PANDA.
China Reporting by Adversary
WICKED PANDA
CIRCUIT PANDA
PIRATE PANDA
JUDGMENT PANDA
KRYPTONITE PANDA
WICKED SPIDER
DEEP PANDA
EMISSARY PANDA
GOBLIN PANDA
KARMA PANDA
Figure 8. China-Nexus Reporting by Adversary in 2020
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 36