Introduction
In July 2020, Mandiant Threat Intelligence released a
public report [2] detailing an ongoing influence campaign
we named “Ghostwriter.” Ghostwriter is a cyber-enabled
influence campaign which primarily targets audiences
in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland and promotes narratives
critical of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s (NATO)
presence in Eastern Europe. Since releasing our public
report, we have continued to investigate and report on
Ghostwriter activity to Mandiant Intelligence customers.
We tracked new incidents as they happened and identified
activity extending back years before we formally identified
the campaign in 2020. This report provides an update on
Ghostwriter, highlighting two significant developments.
We have observed an expansion of narratives, targeting
and TTPs associated with Ghostwriter activity since we
released our July 2020 report. For example, several recent
operations have heavily leveraged the compromised social
media accounts of Polish officials on the political right to
publish content seemingly intended to create domestic
political disruption in Poland rather than foment distrust of
NATO. These operations, conducted in Polish and English,
appear to have largely not relied on the dissemination
vectors we have typically observed with previous
Ghostwriter activity, such as website compromises,
spoofed emails or posts from inauthentic personas.
Recently obtained technical evidence now allows us to
assess with high confidence that UNC1151, a suspected
state-sponsored cyber espionage actor that engages in
credential harvesting and malware campaigns, conducts
at least some components of Ghostwriter influence
activity; current intelligence gaps, including gaps
pertaining to website compromises and the operation of
false personas, do not allow us to conclusively attribute
all aspects of the Ghostwriter campaign to UNC1151 at
this time. We do not associate UNC1151 with any other
previously tracked threat groups. Since the start of
2021, UNC1151 has expanded its credential theft activity
to target German politicians. This targeting has been
publicly reported in the German Tagesschau. [3]
The appendices of this report include an exhaustive
table of incidents and operations we currently associate
with Ghostwriter activity, a detailed case study of a
recent operation and indicators of compromise (IOCs)
related to UNC1151.
2 FireEye (2020). Ghostwriter Influence Campaign: Unknown Actors Leverage Website Compromises and Fabricated Content
to Push Narratives Aligned with Russian Security Interests.
3 Tagesschau (March 31, 2021). Angriff der “Chaostruppe”.
WHITE PAPER | CYBER ESPIONAGE GROUP UNC1151 LIKELY CONDUCTS GHOSTWRITER INFLUENCE ACTIVITY 5