3 Characteristics: — In another case, we observed that
Characteristics:

Deploy malware in a target environment

to gather credentials and map the victim's
network topology.

Use internal tools, such as Sysmon and the

net.exe Windows command-line tool, to
scan systems.
Operational specifics:
APT38 operators put significant effort into
understanding their environments and
ensuring successful deployment of tools
against targeted systems. The group has
demonstrated a desire to maintain access to
a victim environment for as long as necessary
to understand the network layout, necessary
permissions, and system technologies to
achieve its goals. APT38 also takes steps to
make sure they remain undetected while they
are conducting their internal reconnaissance.
On average, we have observed APT38 remain
within a victim network approximately
155 days, with the longest time within a
compromised victim believed to be 678 days
(almost two years) .

The length of time between APT38's first

interaction with the SWIFT system and the
observed malicious transactions has varied
significantly between operations.
—
In one case, we observed malicious
transactions were being made less than a
month after initial reconnaissance of the
SWIFT server.
APT38 compromised a SWIFT system
and waited almost two years before
conducting fraudulent transactions.
During that two-year period, APT38
maintained access to the environment,
installed and updated backdoors, and
monitored activity to learn more about
individual users, administrators, and
SWIFT systems.
—
It is possible that additional SWIFT
interactions occurred that were not
observed.

The group leverages internal tools when

possible throughout their operations.
For example, APT38 has leveraged the
Windows Sysinternals utility, Sysmon, in
multiple instances to monitor systems; and
in another observed case, the group relied
on internal file transfer software already
present in the environment to move and
delete malware.

APT38 operators also try to match

naming conventions that already exist
on compromised systems to mask their
activities. This includes mimicking file
naming conventions in a victim network
and hiding these malicious files amongst
legitimate files.

The group understands compromised

environments well enough that in at least
one instance, they incorporated hard-coded
internal proxy IP addresses specific to the
victim environment in their malware.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 20
Pivot to SWIFT Servers
Pivot to SWIFT Servers