IN MID-2013,
ten armed units working in opposition to Syrian They shared photocopied battle plans and in red
President Assad’s regime were planning a major ballpoint pen added defensive berms, saving
operation intended to push a front forward their plans electronically as pictures. They
against the Syrian government’s forces. They planned for a battle involving between 700 and
carefully laid out their objective—take and hold a 800 opposition forces, who were divided into
series of positions and liberate the town of Khirbet groups to launch separate attacks, including an
Ghazaleh, a strategic gateway to the major city of ambush. They mapped out locations for reserve
Daraa. They used Google Earth to map their fighters, staging areas, and support personnel,
defensive lines and communicate grid coordinates. settled on a field operations area, and planned
supply routes to resource their forces. They
sternly told commanders of each unit that they
could make no ‘individual’ decisions without the
approval of the Operations element.
3
We uncovered these battle plans in the course of
our ongoing threat research. It quickly became
apparent that we had come across stolen
documents containing the secret communications
and plans of Syrian opposition forces that had
fallen victim to a well-executed hacking operation.
Between at least November 2013 and January
2014, the hackers stole a cache of critical
documents and Skype conversations revealing the
Syrian opposition’s strategy, tactical battle plans,
supply needs, and troves of personal information
and chat sessions belonging to the men fighting
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces.
While we do not know who conducted this hacking
operation, if this data was acquired by Assad’s
forces or their allies it could confer a distinct
battlefield advantage.
To undertake this operation, the threat group
employed a familiar tactic: ensnaring its
victims through conversations with seemingly
sympathetic and attractive women. A female
avatar would strike up a conversation on Skype
and share a “personal” photo with her target.
Before sending the photo she typically asked
which device the victim was using—an Android
phone or a computer—likely in an effort to send
appropriately tailored malware. Once the target
downloaded the malware-laden photo, the threat
group accessed his device, rifled through files and
selected and stole data identifying opposition
members, their Skype chat logs and contacts, and
scores of documents that shed valuable insight
into military operations planned against President
Assad’s forces.
4
SPECIAL REPORT Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines
KEY FINDINGS
SPECIAL REPORT Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines
I. DATA THEFT:
STEALING THE OPPOSITION’S PLANS
he threat group amassed a significant
amount of data, from Skype account
T databases to planning documents and
spreadsheets to photos. The victims created the
majority of the data from May 2013 to December
2013. Some of the stolen Skype databases
included chat history going back to 2012 and
activity as recent as January 2014. The threat
TYPES OF STOLEN INFORMATION
group chose what it stole carefully, there were
only a few instances where the group downloaded
movies, empty files, end user licensing
agreements, baby pictures, school papers, and
other seemingly extraneous material. We have
summarized the major types of information
contained in the stolen data in the table below:
6
SPECIAL REPORT Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines
STOLEN DATA