The discovery
In the third quarter of 2015 ESET identified a previously unknown modular malware family, Prikormka . Further research revealed that this malware has been
active since at least 2008 and the country where the malware has been seen most
is Ukraine. The reason why it had gone unnoticed for so long is the relatively low
infection ratio before 2015. The number of infections surged significantly in 2015.
One of the first examples of this malware that we analyzed in our laboratory had
the name prikormka.exe . The Russian and Ukrainian word prikormka ( Прикормка )
means groundbait, a type of fish bait that is cast into the water to attract fish. We
used this codename during our research and afterward we decided to keep it, so the
malware has the names Win32/Prikormka and Win64/Prikormka respectively.
The low detection ratio and ability to stay undetected for years is a common characteristic of targeted attacks (APTs). The investigation of campaigns and Prikormka activity has increased our confidence that this malware is used in targeted
attacks.
Targeted attacks are generally carried out for various purposes, including recon
naissance, intellectual property theft, sabotage, and espionage. After analyzing
tactics, techniques and procedures employed by this particular malware group,
we came to the conclusion that individuals are targeted rather than companies.
Even when the Prikormka malware was detected in a corporate environment, we
never saw any lateral movement — a technique used by advanced adversaries in
cyber-attacks.
We suspect that this group operates in Ukraine, where most of the victims are
located. For that reason and due to the nature of these attacks, we classified them
as cyber-surveillance operations.
Operation Groundbait: Analysis of a surveillance toolkit 3
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Figure 1. The number of unique samples retrieved by ESET, by years, based on timestamps.
Figure 1 shows the number of unique Prikormka samples compiled in each year
since 2008, according to the PE header timestamps. While timestamps by them
selves usually are not a reliable indicator, in this case, their accuracy was confirmed by ESET’s LiveGrid® telemetry.