6.4 Software signatures and keys
No public key data was directly identified in BROM or HBOOT, suggesting this data was loaded before control
was passed to BROM. So where was this key data stored? It was possible to make some educated guesses as to
where the public key(s) might be stored:


In the ROM code of SLIMpro


In some other location related to SLIMpro


Somewhere on the NOR Flash


The easiest way to verify this was by browsing through the Flash images in the hope of stumbling upon the keys.
During Flash analysis we already identified one possible candidate: the AMCC data blob at Flash offset
0x7DA0800, with very conspicuous strings (file names?) like ppc.bin.key . This piece of data was the same in all
extracted Flash images, suggesting this data to be global for at least any device within the family – as expected
for software signing keys.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 36
PUBLIC
Following the AMCC container format description (appendix 6.3), the files inside could be extracted.
This left us with the ppc.bin.key file (the ppc1.bin.key is identical) which might have contained software
verification keys, but its format was not immediately obvious. However, one could note that there were
repeating data pieces such as hex strings AB 12 34 CD and BE EF CA FE at the start and the end, and a text
string C2960X in the middle; all repeated 4 times. This could mean there were 4 keys contained within this file.
Figure 26. The beginning of ppc.bin.key and the BEEFCAFE marker.
After spending several hours on decoding the format of these entries, we were able to provide the following
summary: the format loosely followed a tag-length-value (TLV) structure with 7-byte fixed header AE 02 25 AB
12 34 CD and 4-byte fixed trailer BE EF CA FE, tags were one byte, lengths were two bytes. Tag 04 was the RSA
modulus, and tag 05 is the RSA public exponent (always 0x10001, a typical value).
Two unique public key moduli were extracted from this file; they are reproduced below for reference. It is
important to highlight the fact these keys can only be used to verify signatures.
Investigating the signature format, we could conclude it followed the same TLV format albeit without headers
and trailers. Tag 0B was identified to be the RSA signature.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 37
PUBLIC
Putting this knowledge to work, we could easily confirm whether our deductions were correct with Python:
Judging by the well-formed decrypted data, we found the right software signature verification key; if the key
was incorrect, the decrypted data would appear random. The format appeared to fit what was defined in PKCS#1
v1.5 [13] and the data told us the hash function used was SHA-512.
13 https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2313
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 38