The Initial Compromise
Physical access Phishing messages Phishing messages
WhatsApp Facebook group
Phishing messages
Facebook group
Trojanized Android Apps
Exfiltrated
Data
Figure 15: The Android malware infrastructure
is designed to attract victims into the campaign
through two different mechanisms: phishing
campaigns that separately lead to a watering hole
server (secureandroid[.]info) and a server designed
to accept credentials via a spoofed login
Dark Caracal relies primarily on social engineering via posts on a Facebook group and WhatsApp messages in order to
compromise target systems, devices, and accounts. At a high-level, the attackers have designed three different kinds of phishing
messages, the goal of which is to eventually drive victims to a watering hole controlled by Dark Caracal.
9 Pallas’ Cat is another name for “Manul,” a reference to EFF’s Op Manul campaign on this actor
17
The group distributes trojanized Android
applications with the Pallas malware through its
watering hole, secureandroid[.]info. Many of these
downloads include fake messaging and privacy
oriented apps.
There is also some indication that Dark Caracal
has used physical access in the past to install the
Android malware.
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Figure 16: secureandroid[.]info’s app download page
Figure 17: A text message found
from a possible victim’s device
18
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Social Engineering and Spear-Phishing
Dark Caracal uses phishing messages through popular applications, such as WhatsApp, in order to direct people to the
watering hole.
Figure 18:
Left: Extracted from WhatsApp
messages database
Right: Facebook group links to
watering hole
Dark Caracal infrastructure hosts phishing sites, which look like login portals for well known services, such as Facebook, Twitter,
and Google. We found links to these pages in numerous Facebook groups that included “Nanys” in their titles. These groups are
listed in the appendix.
Figure 19: Dark Caracal
credential phishing portals
19
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Google has indexed several of these phishing campaigns from the tweetsfb[.]com server. We were able to link a number of
phishing domains dating to the mid-to-late 2016 time period from this data. We believe the attackers used these phishing servers
to capture login credentials, hijack accounts, and to push out more spoofed messages to widen their pool of victims.
Figure 20: Google indexing of tweetsfb[.]com campaigns
Phishing links posted in Dark Caracal linked Facebook groups include politically themed news stories, links to fake versions of
popular services, such as Gmail, and links to trojanized versions of WhatsApp.
Figure 21: Dark Caracal phishing links posted on Facebook
20
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Four Facebook profiles similar in theme “liked” the phishing groups. Dark Caracal likely used these fake profiles to initiate
communication with victims and build a rapport before directing them either to content on the “Nanys” Facebook groups
or to the secureandroid[.]info domain directly.
Figure 22: Dark Caracal fake Facebook profiles