Saber lion organization (APT-C-38) attack activity revealed I. Overview
Since July 2015, the Army Lions Organization (APT-C-38) has launched an organized,
planned and targeted uninterrupted attack in the Middle East. Its attack platform is
Windows and Android. Up to now, 360 Beaconlab has captured 25 Android platform
attack samples, 4 Windows platform attack samples, and 16 C2 domain names.
In May 2018, Kaspersky security vendor published the report " Who's who in the Zoo ",
the first time to disclose the organization as an unaffiliated espionage organization
focused on the Middle East target, and named ZooPark, the attack weapon involved
contains four iterations The version of the Android-side RAT, load delivery methods
include puddles and Telegram channels.
In 2019, 360 Campfire Lab captured the latest attack activity of the Saber Lions
organization. In addition to discovering Android-side attacks, it also found that the
organization had Windows-side attacks, and the Android-side RAT still belongs to the
fourth generation. We combine the geopolitical factors of the APT attack, the language
used by the attacking organization, and the historical attack activities initiated by the
organization. The analysis considers the organization to be an APT organization in the
background of a country in the Middle East in West Asia. In addition, we would like to
thank our brother team----360 Advanced Threat Response Team for the completion
of the Windows side RAT content of this report.
Because of the main target of the Saber-Like organization, the Kurdish target is a
Kurdish country in the Middle East and West Asia. In addition, the Windows side RAT
contains multiple "Saber" under the PDB path, and the Asian lion is the representative
animal of the Middle East. Some of the other characteristics of the organization and the
360 naming rules for the APT organization, we named the organization the Saber Lion
(APT-C-38).
blogs.360.cn/post/analysis-of-APT-C-38.html 1/12
5/27/2019 Saber Lions Organization (APT-C-38) Attacks Uncovered - 360 Core Security Technology Blog
Figure 1.1 The time of the key attack activity of the saber lion