Background: The Perpetual Targeting of the Syrian Opposition
Syrians have experienced monitoring and blocking of their electronic communications for many years. As a result, many
more technically literate Syrians have familiarized themselves with VPNs and other tools to circumvent simple blocking,
and achieve a degree of privacy. After the 2011 Uprising began, the regime disconnected telecommunications services
in many areas controlled by opposition groups. This led, in these areas, to the widespread adoption of satellite internet
connectivity, mostly via VSAT (Very Small Aperture Terminal) services like Tooway and iDirect, and to a lesser extent the
use of BGAN (Broadband Global Area Network) terminals.
At the same time, the Syrian opposition’s activities outside the country, both in neighboring countries like Turkey, as well
as in the diaspora, dramatically increased. Much of this activity takes place over social networks, free e-mail accounts
like Gmail (and Google Apps for Work), and via tools like Skype’s VoIP services.
These shifts in connectivity limited the effectiveness of the passive monitoring and blocking used by the Al Assad Regime,
https://citizenlab.org/2016/08/group5-syria/ 2/44
2016/8/3 Group5: Syria and the Iranian Connection - The Citizen Lab
and frustrated its abilities to monitor the opposition.
However, the shift towards social networks and other online tools has created new opportunities for the regime to target
the opposition. Opposition members constantly share information, files, tools and programs, via social media. This highly
connected environment enables them to be highly aware of changing events, and quickly mobilize resources. In
addition, a number of online services, such as the Google Play Store, are blocked or restricted for Syria. As a result, a
culture of sharing Android APK files has also developed.
The heavy reliance on popular online platforms, and regular sharing of tools, presents many opportunities to seed
malicious files. For the regime, a successful operation means a chance to regain visibility into the activities of groups
within the geographic borders of Syria, while extending their reach outside into the diaspora. For other groups, such as
ISIS, the digital vulnerability of the opposition presents an opportunity to develop a capability against opposition
communications. The following section outlines several of these known threat actors.
Regime-Linked Groups
The most well-known threat actor to target the Syrian Revolution is the Syrian Electronic Army (SEA). However, many of the
targets of the SEA have been Western organizations, although the SEA continues to conduct lower-profile operations that
include malware against the opposition. Less notorious, although still the subject of reporting, are malware groups linked
to the regime. These malware groups have been active since 2011, and have used a wide range of Commercial-Off-The
Shelf (COTS) Remote Access Trojans (RATs) to target the opposition. Typically, these groups bundle RATs with a wide
range of documents and programs designed to appeal to the opposition. Over the years, these campaigns have
included everything from “revolution plans,” lists of “wanted suspects,” to fake security and encryption tools. These
campaigns have been extensively characterized by reports from the Citizen Lab, The Electronic Frontier Foundation, and
private companies like TrendMicro and Kaspersky. A range of reports have documented these regime-linked campaigns
over the years.
Pro-Regime Groups Outside Syria
There is also evidence of pro-Assad groups outside Syria participating in malware campaigns against opposition. Notably,
a group reported on in 2015 by FireEye (in collaboration with one of the authors of this report) used female avatars to
send trojaned documents to high profile figures in opposition politics, aid, and armed groups. The operation yielded over
31,000 conversations, and a trove of sensitive information about a variety of groups’ plans and activities. This group also
made use of fake matchmaking websites and social media accounts to backstop their deception.
ISIS-Linked Groups
On a different side of conflict, the Citizen Lab documented a malware operation linked to ISIS against the group
‘Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently’ (RBSS) in 2015. The operators, masquerading as a group of RBSS sympathizers
based in Canada, targeted victims with a file that claimed to contain locations of ISIS forces and US Airstrikes within Syria.
The file actually contained custom malware that collected and transmitted information about the infected computer.
The report concluded that there was strong circumstantial evidence linking the malware to members of ISIS.
Many Groups, Similar Tactics
Each of these groups has distinct Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTPs). However, one common thread among the
many publicly-reported groups is that they rarely use exploits in their campaigns, instead relying heavily on social
engineering and trickery to convince targets to execute malicious files, disguised as innocuous documents.
This may reflect some of these groups’ lack of technical sophistication. For example, many regime-linked groups seem
to have very limited skills and technical resources, and rely almost entirely on RATs coupled with well-informed social
engineering. These techniques have evolved, but not improved radically since 2011. In other cases, such as the Lebanon
linked group reported on by FireEye, operators may have access to more sophisticated techniques, but see little reason
to use them against their targets, given the limited technical capabilities of the opposition.