NIST CSF Respond
Develop and implement appropriate
activities to take action regarding a
detected cybersecurity incident.
Investigating Cyber-Espionage
breaches differs from researching
cybersecurity incidents. Thus, incident
responders and forensic investigators
may not initially realize that an
attack is targeted and the motive is
intellectual property theft. It’s only as
the investigation progresses and the
complexity of the attack becomes
apparent that investigators take a
slightly different approach.
Before the investigation, investigators
collect technical information such
as network topology. Investigators
also interview network and system
administrators to scope out the incident
and identify possible intrusion channels.
In addition, investigators collect inscope volatile data and system images
plus all associated logs from various
sources, such as system (including
PowerShell or System Monitor), SIEM
and proxy logs.
Understanding how the incident was
detected helps an investigator triage
and scope, as Cyber-Espionage attacks
generally involve multiple systems
and other infrastructure components.
In-scope data sources require periodic
review and re-scoping throughout the
IR lifecycle.
Response tips
One key objective for a CyberEspionage investigation is to identify
“patient zero” and determine how
the adversary gained access to the
infrastructure. Common methods of
entry include exploiting an internetfacing application, applying brute force
to an account, using phishing email to
gain an initial foothold or compromising
the human factor—trust.
During Cyber-Espionage investigations,
it is common to find phishing (or
targeted phishing) emails as the initial
vector. These emails usually are well
crafted (industry specific) to lure the
recipients either to click a URL hosting
a malicious or lookalike website, or
to open an attachment that executes
malicious software. In some cases,
obtaining user credentials is the goal for
follow-on use in the initial penetration.
Based on the information received
from the impacted organization and
the results of the initial analysis, the
threat-intelligence team endeavors
to identify an associated threat actor.
By identifying its goals, capabilities
and methods, the team can develop
attack models—based on the most
common and most lethal cybersecurity
incidents—to prepare for and better
respond to cybersecurity attacks.
When combined with organization
profiling, unique risk identification is
possible and can provide valuable
assistance to the investigation to find
in-scope compromised or affected
infrastructure components.
Sometimes, the cyber threat
intelligence team encounters stolen
data and credentials being traded by
cybercriminals, and this data is all the
adversary needs for further attacks on
an organization.
One key challenge faced during
Cyber-Espionage investigations is the
identification of compromised systems.
Many Cyber-Espionage attacks are
associated with advanced persistent
attacks—multistaged attacks that
involve lateral movement.
Identifying compromised assets or
assets posing as intermediaries can
be a challenge. Cyber-Espionage
attacks employ specifically created
malware that causes multiple layers
of obfuscation and malware variants,
making IoC-based detection within the
enterprise environment difficult.
A further challenge is that CyberEspionage attacks often leverage
legitimate credentials and legitimate
dual-use tools, such as network
mapping or remote access software
already being used in the environment.
This makes it extremely difficult to
differentiate between malicious actions
and legitimate administrative tasks.
To circumvent challenges, EDR
and NDR solutions help identify
abnormalities and build the IoCs
necessary to locate affected systems
and infrastructure components.

Learn how the incident was detected to help

investigators triage the incident and scope
the response

Identify “patient zero” and determine how the

adversary gained access to the organization’s
network infrastructure

Search for common vectors, such as phishing (or

targeted phishing) emails that lure recipients to execute
malicious software

Deploy EDR and NDR solutions to aid

incident response
26 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report