Phishing with a hook and LINE
As most spearphishing stories begin, Mary receives an email from John, except the email isn’t really
from John, it’s from somebody pretending to be John in an attempt to gain Mary’s trust so that she’ll
open an email attachment that contains malware.
1 The blog posting has unfortunately since been removed
2 Snowden’s actions: we don’t care what effect he had - he’s still a prick. Welcome to Hong Kong 
D r a g o n T h r e a t L a b s, H o n g K o n g Page 2
In this case ‘Mary’ is an employee of the Taiwanese Government and ‘John’ is supposedly a co
worker also working for the Government. Based on the format of the email addresses it appears
that the attacker has some working knowledge of their target organisation but the body of the email
does not give away further ‘guilty knowledge’ and simply asks the user to open the attachment to
install LINE, a popular instant messaging program used in millions of people in Taiwan.
The malware is very simply contained within a zip file. The zip file does not have a password.
Fortunately in this case it seems that this email was noticed as suspicious by the recipient and they
uploaded it to a popular anti-virus website.
This method of delivering malware isn’t uncommon in Asia. Due to a lack of general awareness in IT
security many users fall victim to such attacks be it APT or common crimeware. It is of course good
practice to block all executable files in email attachment (.exe, .bat, .cmd, .scr, .jar etc.). Whilst this
method isn’t the most sophisticated don’t let it fool you – it proves to be very effective.
A further look into the email headers shows us that the email did not come from a co-worker; it in
fact came from somebody outside of the organisation.
D r a g o n T h r e a t L a b s, H o n g K o n g Page 3
Many organisations worldwide complain of spearphishes coming from HiNet IP ranges and
brandishing the DreamMail X-mailer. Unfortunately this combination of characteristics is very
common in Asia and thus does not always make a good heuristic detection rule.