What is afset?
afset, like setMFT is also used to timestomp files plus clean
Microsoft Windows logs based on criteria (id, time) from the
user. It also changes the PE build time and checksum. afset
provides more granular functionality to allow the user to set
only certain timestamps on a file (sia, fna or both). To
achieve the timestomping and log cleaning functions, afset
uses the RawDisk driver with the same lengthy license key.
The afset sample we obtained appeared to be incomplete or
a partial development version. The sample attempted to
write a randomly named file with a .sys extension to the
local directory with the contents of the “ICONS” resource
which is supposed to be the encoded RawDisk driver.
However, it failed to decode on execution. If the driver write
had completed it would have registered as a service using
the same random driver name. Plus, it would have been
used to obtain a handle to write the MFT record for the
target file to match either a user supplied file or by default
the file “%SYSTEMROOT%\system32\tapi32.dll”.
According to the handy usage statement, conditional log
cleaning is only available on 32-bit systems. From our
dynamic testing, it appears to clear the event log and then
rewrite it without the offending entries. A full reversing of
the log cleaning feature was not performed and dynamic
analysis failed due to errors in the driver extraction routine
from the resources. Fortunately, the usage statement gives
insight to the full functionality of the tool:
https://www.damballa.com/damballa-discovers-new-toolset-linked-to-destover-attackers-arsenal-helps-them-to-broaden-attack-surface/ 3/7
2015/11/20 Damballa discovers new toolset linked to Destover
Afset is used interactively on the target system. It allows the
attacker to remain stealthy and erase their tracks as they
move through the network. A full forensic analysis of a
system would reveal the presence of afset and missing log
activity but it’s likely this activity would go undetected
initially creating high-risk infection dwell time.
For enterprise security teams, the utility of setMFT and afset
means that many of the tools and methods they use to
identify the presence of attackers would be thwarted. If the
adversary gains access to corporate servers and can clean
and redirect log files, they can prevent any evidence of their
activity from reaching a SIEM or log analysis solution.
These tools appear to have limited distribution, which
means that newer versions of the tools could go undetected
by standard AV for an extended length of time. Also, as
mentioned, the ability to have the tools blend with legitimate
system files allows the attacker to evade detection during a
cursory glance by personnel. These capabilities, when used
together with tools that enable attackers to obtain network
credentials and disable defenses, allows them to permeate
the network undetected for an extended period of time.