A More Discerning Breed of TA416 PlugX Malware
Close analysis of the delivered payloads and legitimate resources retrieved from URLs by
the first stage malware dropper reveals that TA416 is once again using an updated version
of PlugX malware to target their victims. Historically, the group has relied on a variety of
legitimate antivirus files, including the Avast file resource wsc_proxy.exe, to begin the
process of DLL search order hijacking that results in PlugX malware installation. In the
January 2022 campaigns, TA416 used the PE file potplayermini.exe to initiate DLL search
order hijacking. This is a legitimate executable file that is part of the publicly available
media player Daum PotPlayer 1.5.29825, which Mandiant has previously documented as
being susceptible to search order hijacking since at least 2016. Numerous Chinese APT
groups, which are not directly correlated to TA416, have utilized it since that time. This
campaign leveraged the vulnerability of potplayermini.exe to load the file PotPlayer.dll
which contains an obfuscated launcher that in turn executes the file PotPlayerDB.dat. The
file DocConvDll.dll has also intermittently been used as a loader of the PlugX DAT
configuration files. For those that are familiar with TA416’s historic tactics, techniques,
and procedures (TTPs), this is highly similar to the Trident Loader method which the
group used to install PlugX in previous campaigns.
While PotPlayerDB.dat is a variant of PlugX malware, TA416 has updated the payload by
changing both its encoding method and expanding the payload’s configuration
capabilities. Historically, TA416 relied on the DLL launcher to decode the PlugX payload
utilizing an XOR key included at the offset 0 within the PlugX DAT configuration file. In
this case, TA416 has abandoned that approach in favor of something with less
dependencies that is more convoluted. The latest version contains obfuscation to thwart
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/blog/threat-insight/good-bad-and-web-bug-ta416-increases-operational-tempo-against-european 7/19
4/27/22, 4:13 PM The Good, the Bad, and the Web Bug: TA416 Increases Operational Tempo Against European Governments as Conflict in Ukraine Escalate…
analysis. One of the main ways it does this is by resolving API functions during runtime.
Generally, malware loads a DLL, iterates over the set of exports of the DLL and hashes the
string, looking for a matching hash. This iteration of PlugX does standard API hashing,
but only to resolve the address of the functions GetProcAddress as well as LoadLibrary.
Once those functions are resolved properly, it loads the rest of the functions via their text
name.
Figure 4. PlugX malware API hashing method.
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/blog/threat-insight/good-bad-and-web-bug-ta416-increases-operational-tempo-against-european 8/19
4/27/22, 4:13 PM The Good, the Bad, and the Web Bug: TA416 Increases Operational Tempo Against European Governments as Conflict in Ukraine Escalate…
In addition to this obfuscation attempt, most of the functions that contain the "business
logic" of the malware are obfuscated with a state machine. At a high level this obscures
the order of which blocks are executed within a function. It does this by maintaining a
state variable with many comparisons in the function. After each block, the state variable
is modified to whatever the subsequent block should be, making analysis more difficult.
This sample further implements anti-analysis techniques via the malware’s design. After
every iteration of the state machine, the malware sample will modify the state with a XOR
operation. This makes it difficult to analyze as the states are not hardcoded as the result
of a function. This control obfuscation is apparent below with the highly cyclical nature of
the control flow graph.
Figure 5. PlugX malware control flow graph.
Once researchers defeated the PlugX anti-analysis techniques, they were able to examine
the malware’s configuration. Notably the configuration contained three additional fields
that were not present in the previous versions nor in standard PlugX malware. The new
version included:
Two hardcoded dates for latest write time used to filter over files within a specified
directory.
A minimum and maximum file size to filter over files within a specified directory.
A format string that defaults to “public/Publics” that modifies characteristics of the
folder and hide it from the infected user.
In the past, when fields have been added to PlugX malware configurations they have
persisted in future samples identified in subsequent campaigns. Recently, this has not
always proven to be true. In recent campaigns, a consistent and clear configuration that is
repeated has not been present. The expansion of the malware’s configuration fields
demonstrates that this tool is undergoing additional development by TA416. Further, the
type of added features that enable better filtering of victim files for exfiltration and better
concealment from the infected user demonstrates that the actor is going beyond anti
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/blog/threat-insight/good-bad-and-web-bug-ta416-increases-operational-tempo-against-european 9/19
4/27/22, 4:13 PM The Good, the Bad, and the Web Bug: TA416 Increases Operational Tempo Against European Governments as Conflict in Ukraine Escalate…
analysis to create a more functional and precise tool to use during intrusions. It also
indicates the varying versions of the PlugX payload that are being used in a short period
of time.