Attribution
In January 2020, ESET reported a new campaign targeting universities in Hong Kong with both Winnti
and a new ShadowPad variant. On May 21, 2020, few domains related to the same cluster of
infrastructure used in this campaign were listed as the indicators in an FBI alert mentioning that nationstate threat actors were targeting US organizations conducting Covid-19 research.
Positive Technologies released a report sharing the analysis of a new malware called FunnySwitch,
which possibly originated from the same developers of the Crosswalk malware: the C&C domains of
FunnySwitch could connect to the infrastructure of the same campaign. Another report released by
Dr.WEB in March 2021 identified another malware called Spyder, which also used the same associated
C&C infrastructure.
In April 2021, the NTT Group published a report of a campaign that deployed Cobalt Strike and Acunitex
on compromised GlassFish servers to perform targeted attacks. The report addressed the activity
overlaps with aforementioned ESET and Dr.WEB’s reports. A few months later, in July 2021, Avast
reported that the website of a Mongolian certification authority was compromised to distribute Cobalt
Strike binaries associated with the indicators described in the NTT Group’s report. Recorded Future
reported the same cluster of activity later on and gave a temporary name to this campaign (TAG-22).
In July 2021, we published a report on a new malware called BIOPASS RAT. The malware was loaded by
loaders that have the same PDB string reported in both the NTT Group and Avast’s reports.
More recently, PwC published an extensive analysis of the ShadowPad variant (32 bit version) that Earth
Lusca used.
Figure 24. Research and reports related to Earth Lusca
The earlier research done on these activities initially attributed it to the Winnti Group since the malware
used in the campaigns included Winnti and ShadowPad (reported to be associated with the Winnti
Group). As more details emerged, however, it became clear that the TTP and the infrastructure differ from
those used by any subcluster under the Winnti umbrella.
More recent reports consider it to be another cluster of activities under the name TAG-22 or Fishmonger.
We decided to separate the cluster as an independent campaign and named it Earth Lusca.
The term Winnti has evolved since it first hit public consciousness in 2013. While it was initially
designated as both a tool and its associated threat actor, the research community has begun to consider
the term “Winnti” as one that no longer refers to a single threat actor, but encompasses several different
groups originating from the same country and possibly sharing parts of their code, tools and TTP.
We can conclude with medium confidence that Earth Lusca is part of the Winnti cluster, but we prefer to
state the facts and consider it as a single threat actor.