DragonFly
An ongoing cyberespionage campaign against a range of targets, mainly in the energy sector, gave attackers the ability to
mount sabotage operations against their victims. The attackers, known to Symantec as Dragonfly, managed to
compromise (Star Report, n.d.) some strategically important organizations for spying purposes and, if they had used the
sabotage capabilities open to them, could have caused damage or disruption to energy supplies in affected countries.
Among the targets of Dragonfly were energy grid operators, major electricity generation firms, petroleum pipeline
operators, and energy industry industrial equipment providers. The majority of the victims were located in the United
States, Spain, France, Italy, Germany, Turkey, and Poland. (Dragonfly, n.d.)
The Dragonfly group is well resourced, with a range of malware tools at its disposal and is capable of launching attacks
through some different vectors. Its most ambitious attack campaign saw it compromise some industrial control system
(ICS) equipment providers, infecting their software with a remote access-type Trojan. This caused companies to install the
malware when downloading software updates for computers running ICS equipment. These infections not only gave the
attackers a beachhead in the targeted organizations’ networks but also gave them the means to mount sabotage
operations against infected ICS computers.
This campaign follows in the footsteps of Stuxnet, which was the first known major malware campaign to target ICS
systems. While Stuxnet was narrowly targeted at the Iranian nuclear program and had sabotage as its primary goal,
Dragonfly appears to have a much broader focus with espionage and persistent access as its current objective with
sabotage as an optional capability if required.
In addition to compromising ICS software, Dragonfly has used spam email campaigns and watering hole attacks to infect
targeted organizations. The group has used two main malware tools: Backdoor.Oldrea and Trojan.Karagany. The former
appears to be a custom piece of malware, either written by or for the attackers.
Before publication, Symantec notified affected victims and relevant national authorities, such as Computer Emergency
Response Centers (CERTs) that handle and respond to Internet security incidents.