Timeline
Most of the Blue and Green Lambert samples have two C&C servers hardcoded in their
configuration block: a hostname and an IP address. Using our own pDNS as well as DomainTools
IP history, we plotted the times when the C&C servers were active and pointing to the same IP
address as the one from the configuration block.
Unfortunately, this method doesn’t work for all samples, since some of them don’t have a domain
for C&C. Additionally, in some cases we couldn’t find any pDNS information for the hostname
configured in the malware.
Luckily, the attackers have made a few mistakes, which allow us to identify the activity times for
most of the other samples. For instance, in case when no pDNS information was available for a
subdomain on top of the main C&C domain, the domain registration dates were sufficient to point
out when the activity began. Additionally, in some cases the top domain pointed to the same IP
address as the one from the configuration file, allowing us to identify the activity times.
Another worthwhile analysis method focuses on the set of Blue Lambert samples that have
exports. Although most compilation timestamps in the PE header appear to have been tampered
(to reflect a 2003-2004 range), the authors forgot to alter the timestamps in the export section.
This allowed us to identify not just the activity / compilation timestamps, but also the method used
for faking the compilation timestamps in the PE header.
It seems the algorithm used to tamper with the samples was the following: subtract 0x10 from the
highest byte of timestamp (which amounts to about 8 and half years) and then randomize the
lowest 3 bytes. This way we conclude that for Blue Lamberts, that original compilation time of
samples was in the range of 2012-2015.
Putting together all the various families, with recovered activity times, we come to the following
picture:
https://securelist.com/unraveling-the-lamberts-toolkit/77990/ 7/12
3/4/2020 Unraveling the Lamberts Toolkit | Securelist
Figure 8. A timeline of activity for known Lamberts
As it can be seen from the chart above, Green Lambert is the oldest and longest-running in the
family, while Gray is the newest. White, Blue and Pink somehow overlap in deployment, with Blue
replacing Green Lambert. Black Lambert was seen only briefly and we assume it was “retired”
from the arsenal after being discovered by FireEye in 2014.