RevengeHotels: cybercrime targeting hotel front desks worldwide
securelist.com /revengehotels/95229
By GReAT
RevengeHotels is a targeted cybercrime malware campaign against hotels, hostels, hospitality
and tourism companies, mainly, but not exclusively, located in Brazil. We have confirmed more
than 20 hotels that are victims of the group, located in eight states in Brazil, but also in other
countries such as Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica, France, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Spain,
Thailand and Turkey. The goal of the campaign is to capture credit card data from guests and
travelers stored in hotel systems, as well as credit card data received from popular online travel
agencies (OTAs) such as Booking.com.
The main attack vector is via email with crafted Word, Excel or PDF documents attached. Some
of them exploit CVE-2017-0199, loading it using VBS and PowerShell scripts and then installing
customized versions of RevengeRAT, NjRAT, NanoCoreRAT, 888 RAT and other custom
malware such as ProCC in the victim’s machine. The group has been active since 2015, but
increased its attacks in 2019.
In our research, we were also able to track two groups targeting the hospitality sector, using
separate but similar infrastructure, tools and techniques. PaloAlto has already written about one
of them. We named the first group RevengeHotels, and the second ProCC . These groups use a
lot of social engineering in their attacks, asking for a quote from what appears to be a government
entity or private company wanting to make a reservation for a large number of people. Their
infrastructure also relies on the use of dynamic DNS services pointing to commercial hosting and
self-hosted servers. They also sell credentials from the affected systems, allowing other
cybercriminals to have remote access to hotel front desks infected by the campaign.
We monitored the activities of these groups and the new malware they are creating for over a
year. With a high degree of confidence, we can confirm that at least two distinct groups are
focused on attacking this sector; there is also a third group, though it is unclear if its focus is
solely on this sector or if carries out other types of attacks.