MysterySnail RAT
Our deep dive into the MysterySnail RAT family started with an analysis of a previously
unknown remote shell-type Trojan that was intended to be executed by an elevation of
privilege exploit. The sample which we analyzed was also uploaded to VT on August 10,
2021. The sample is very big – 8.29MB. One of the reasons for the file size is that it’s
statically compiled with the OpenSSL library and contains unused code and data
belonging to that library. But the main reason for its size is the presence of two very large
functions that do nothing but waste processor clock cycles. These functions also “use”
randomly generated strings that are also present in a binary.
Random strings used by anti-analysis functions
We assume these two functions are used as an AV-evasion technique for the purpose of
anti-emulation. This theory is supported by the presence of other redundant logics and
the presence of a relatively large number of exported functions while the real work is
performed by only one of them.
https://securelist.com/mysterysnail-attacks-with-windows-zero-day/104509/ 3/7
10/13/21, 10:04 AM MysterySnail attacks with Windows zero-day | Securelist
Names of exported functions; the actual business logic is executed from
function “GetInfo”
The sample has two hardcoded URLs present in plain text – “www[.]disktest[.]com” and
“www[.]runblerx[.]com”. They are put into class variables for intended use, but remain
unused; the real C2 address is decoded by a single byte xor – “http[.]ddspadus[.]com”.
The malware enumerates the values under the
“Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Internet Settings\ProxyServer” registry
key and uses them to request tunneling through a proxy server in case it fails to connect
to the C2 directly.
The malware itself is not very sophisticated and has functionality similar to many other
remote shells. But it still somehow stands out, with a relatively large number of
implemented commands and extra capabilities like monitoring for inserted disk drives
and the ability to act as a proxy.
Inbound and outbound commands have the same binary-based format that is provided
below. All communication is encrypted with SSL.
Offset Description
0 Size of additional data
4 Session ID
8 Command ID
0xC Additional data
Format of communication commands
Before receiving any commands, the malware gathers and sends general information
about the victim machine. This information includes:
https://securelist.com/mysterysnail-attacks-with-windows-zero-day/104509/ 4/7
10/13/21, 10:04 AM MysterySnail attacks with Windows zero-day | Securelist
Computer name
Current OEM code-page/default identifier
Windows product name
Local IP address
Logged-in user name
Campaign name
One interesting fact is that “Campaign name” by default is set to “windows”. This name
gets overwritten, but it might indicate there are versions of the same RAT compiled for
other platforms.
In total, the RAT implements 20 commands. Their description and command IDs are
provided in the table below.
Command
ID
Description
1F4h Launch interactive cmd.exe shell. Before launch cmd.exe is copied to the
temp folder with a different name
1F5h Spawn new process
1F6h Spawn new process (console)
1F7h Get existing disk drives and their type. This function also works in the
background, checking for new drives
1F8h Create (upload) new file. If a file exists, append data to it
1FAh Get directory list
1FBh Kill arbitrary process
1FFh Delete file
202h Read file. If the file is too big, async read operation can be stopped with
cmd 20Ch.
205h Re-connect
208h Set sleep time (in ms)
209h Shutdown network and exit
20Ah Exit
20Bh Kill interactive shell (created with cmd 1F4h)
20Ch Terminate file reading operation (started with cmd 202h)
217h No operation
https://securelist.com/mysterysnail-attacks-with-windows-zero-day/104509/ 5/7
10/13/21, 10:04 AM MysterySnail attacks with Windows zero-day | Securelist
21Bh Open proxy’ed connection to provided host. Up to 50 simultaneous
connections are supported.
21Ch Send data to proxy’ed connection
21Eh Close all proxy connections
21Fh Close requested proxy connection
List of commands supported by the RAT
The analysis of the MysterySnail RAT helped us discover campaigns using other variants
of the analyzed malware as well as study and document the code changes made to this
tool over a six-month period. We provide more info about these variants and campaigns
in our private report.
With the help of Kaspersky Threat Attribution Engine (KTAE) and the discovery of early
variants of MysterySnail RAT we were able to find direct code and functionality overlap
with the malware attributed to the IronHusky actor. We were also able to discover the reuse of C2 addresses used in attacks by the Chinese-speaking APT as far back as 2012. This
discovery links IronHusky to some of the older known activities.
Kaspersky products detect the CVE-2021-40449 exploit and related malware with the
verdicts:
PDM:Exploit.Win32.Generic
PDM:Trojan.Win32.Generic
Trojan.Win64.Agent*
Kaspersky products detected these attacks with the help of the Behavioral Detection
Engine and the Exploit Prevention component. CVE-2021-40449 is the latest addition to
the long list of zero-days discovered in the wild with the help of our technologies. We will
continue to improve defenses for our users by enhancing technologies and working with
third-party vendors to patch vulnerabilities, making the internet more secure for
everyone.
More information about these attacks and the actor behind them is available to customers
of the Kaspersky Intelligence Reporting service. Contact: intelreports@kaspersky.com.
Kaspersky would like to thank Microsoft for their prompt analysis of the report and
patches.