Protecting cloud infrastructure: Detecting and mitigating threats using Azure Security Center
Cloud computing introduces new challenges to security organizations of all
sizes. Enterprise IT teams have established policies and procedures designed for
enterprise infrastructure and applications, based on their decades of security
experience dealing with on-premises threats. Many of these policies and
procedures can be used effectively in public and hybrid cloud environments.
However, security teams need to keep abreast of changes in the threat
landscape brought on by the emergence of cloud computing.
Threats against cloud deployments and infrastructure
New types of threats can be related to characteristics of the public cloud only, or
to issues introduced by connectivity between on-premises environments and
the public cloud. The following subsections provide descriptions of some new
types of threats.
Disclosing secrets on public sites
Public code repositories such as GitHub have become very popular with
developers because they enable easy collaboration and source control and
remove the responsibility for maintaining the repository infrastructure from
developers. But public repositories can be a double-edged sword. Documented
cases exist of developers accidentally publishing secret keys on GitHub and
other public code repositories, which were discovered by attackers and used to
compromise cloud services. Such incidents can sometimes give attackers access
to a service’s entire account/subscription database, or allow them to misuse its
compute resources for malicious purposes.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  3
Pivot back attacks
A pivot back attack occurs when an attacker compromises a public cloud
resource to obtain information that they then use to attack the resource
provider’s on-premises environment. Public facing endpoints in the cloud are
often under constant brute force attack through protocols such as Remote
Desktop Protocol (RDP) and Secure Shell (SSH). Although the overwhelming
majority of these attacks fail, a very small percentage of them succeed. When
they do, an attacker can sometimes find sensitive information in unexpected or
obscure places.