OVERVIEW
The attack was detected as part of a spear phishing against a government organization in Europe
in late May 2016. The target was an employee working on Chinese policy research and the attack
vector was a PowerPoint presentation file. The content of the presentation was on issues relating
to Chinese activity in the South China Sea.
Screenshot of the first slide from one of the infected presentations
After the presentation is opened, the vulnerability highlighted by CVE-2014-4114 is exploited.
This is a well documented vulnerability commonly called Sandworm, which only works on
unpatched versions of Microsoft Office PowerPoint 2003 and 2007.
Once the exploit worked, it deployed the first stage payload: a compiled AutoIt script. This script
then bypassed UAC using a known method called UACME, the code for which was taken from an
online forum.
Screenshot of the AutoIt malware publication forum post [1 ]

¹ http://www.indetectables.net/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=52263&sid=b6fe274a4e8934fceb0f3fc90cd35aa2
Research 6
TLP: GREEN
With higher privileges, the first stage payload ran PowerSploit to download code to run a reverse
shell with Meterpreter – the RAT of the well known MetaSploit framework.
The next stage was exfiltration of document files that are also used to validate the value of the
infection. If the infected system was deemed valuable enough, the threat actor then infected the
target host with a second stage payload, which was once again a module built from code taken
from various online forums and resources.
Flowchart of infection stages
Since the threat had already been detected and stopped, our goal was to discover as much as we
could about the threat actor. Specifically, we were interested in tools, techniques, and
procedures (TTPs), so that we would be able to detect the threat in case it succeeded in gaining a
foothold elsewhere in customers’ assets. Learning about the threat actor’s TTPs would also allow
us to prevent the threat actor from launching another operation targeted at our customer, as
well as prevent them from launching similar attacks against other customers in the future.
Our investigation proceeded on two fronts:

We built a deception campaign to discover the second stage malware and the actor’s TTPs,

while the operation was still active.

We investigated the operation to uncover the threat actor’s capabilities.
