Notable Activity
designed to elicit information from influential figures in Hong Kong and
pressure them to support Beijing’s stance in exchange for gifts.
The protests reached a critical point when a democratic online referendum
was held in June 2014 calling for open elections of Hong Kong’s chief
executive. At the peak of voting, the online hosting system, Popvote
(which at one point exceeded 500 gbps of traffic), suffered a massive
DDoS attack. The attackers were persistent and scaled their attacks as
defenders responded to the attack, starting with Layer 3 and 4 attacks and
progressively using more advanced Layer 7 attacks. Though the voting
system did persist and drew more than 780,000 votes, the apparent effort
the PRC went through to down the referendum was substantial.
As the protests persisted, the PRC appeared to increase its attempts to
monitor the protestors by proliferating mobile malware for both the Android
and iOS operating systems. The mobile Remote Access Tools (mRATs) were
authored by two individuals with extensive ties to legacy Chinese hackers
and were likely contracted out to customize malware for the purpose of
monitoring protestors’ communications and physical locations.
In addition to these specialized attacks and extensive censorship of the
Umbrella Revolution in mainland China, the PRC appears to have taken
a shotgun approach to handling the protests as they persisted. Several
known China-based groups including MAVERICK PANDA, VIXEN PANDA,
TEMPER PANDA, SABRE PANDA, and HURRICANE PANDA were observed
participating in activity related to the protests, suggesting a possible cross
divisional tasking as the CCP saw support for the protests increase. This
demonstrates the variety of approaches China has when dealing with a
threat to the CCP’s one-party rule. Along with the mobile targeting of most
of the citizens of Hong Kong, it shows a new level of brazenness that is
becoming increasingly common in Chinese cyber operations.
LizardSquad/DerpTrolling
DerpTrolling
The hacking collective DerpTrolling made early 2014 media headlines
28