Recommendations
• Banks are advised to prepare a well-documented and tested Incident Response Plan (IRP) so they are better
prepared to deal with such incidents swiftly and effectively.
• In addition to implementing an effective (but inherently reactive) IR Plan, banks are also advised to consider
setting up a proactive program for Managed Detection & Response (MDR), also known as threat hunting, which
would allow banks to detect threats early on, and mitigate them before they have a chance to realize their full
potential.
• The success of these cyber-attacks may be attributed to failures in both technical and non-technical controls, for
example, the lack of coupling between the Core Banking System and the Third-Party Card Management System.
Had these systems been integrated properly, it would have been much simpler for the changes to the debit card
properties to be red-flagged and blocked by the bank prior to successful monetary theft. Another example of
a non-technical control failure is that several accounts on the Card Management System were allowed to both
“raise a request” for a change to be made, and to “approve” such a change. This is in clear violation of the
very commonly used type of control in banks and banking applications called Maker-Checker control (or the
4-eye principle). Therefore, banks are advised to undertake not only a proactive cyber security risk assessment
exercise, but also to undertake a holistic “business process” risk management exercise to detect and mitigate
these types of control weaknesses.
• From a technical standpoint, success of these cyber-attacks may be attributed to the following reasons:
   - First, the attackers were able to successfully spear phish and socially engineer bank employees to get an initial

foothold in their networks.
  - Second, the attackers took advantage of the common approach of setting the same password for “Local

Administrator” accounts for all the systems in the Windows network, and the tendency of the systems
administrators to use the “Domain Administrator” account (over the network) to perform routine tasks, to
compromise other systems in the Windows network and eventually obtain the “Domain Admin” credentials.
For these reasons, we recommend:
• A different approach (e.g. Windows LAPS) to managing Local Administrator account credentials for the systems
in their Windows networks.
• Restrict by policy the use of the Domain Admin account over the network unless absolutely necessary.
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
7
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study