2010–2014: Branching Out
Using the social engineering knowledge he gained from working Craigslist scams, Alpha began
engaging in romance scams where he communicated with several victims through social
media, text messages, and Google Voice. Over this period, victims sent selfies, photos with
friends, love messages, and sweet nothings sharing that they’d been thinking about Alpha. In
order to maintain the fraudulent persona, Alpha even sent flowers to two victims—once in 2012
and again in 2014.
But why would someone invest the time and effort into pretending to be someone else just
to break their hearts? As with all scams, actors have one goal in mind: money. By pretending
to be a fake lover, romance scammers are able to fool victims into giving them access to their
bank accounts and retirement accounts or into purchasing prepaid debit cards to send to the
fraudsters. Once a romance victim has been milked out of all the money possible, they are
generally then converted into mules for when the scammer needs something physically moved
from one place to another, or when he needs fraudulent funds moved between accounts.
Romance scammers typically assign small tasks to their victims, such as opening a bank
account, wiring money from one account to another, or sending a few fake checks in the mail.
In order to maximize their investment, some scammers ask their victims to open new loan
accounts or credit lines for their “significant other,” only to get nothing back in return. In more
extreme cases of romance scams, victims have even been asked to bring suitcases of drugs
across country borders, thinking it was a chemical or solvent for their lover.
Alpha quickly learned the value of a romance mule. By using other people to do his dirty work,
he could engage with fewer clients and decrease his risk of being caught, all while seeing
increased profit margins. And as Scattered Canary grew over time, romance scam victims
would end up being a primary source for mule accounts.
The story of one Scattered Canary’s romance victim exemplifies the lengths to which these
groups use and reuse their victims until there is literally nothing left to exploit.
By March 2016, one of Scattered Canary’s members had built enough trust with a romance
victim—who we’ll call Jane—that she became a frequent source of new mule accounts for
the group. Since she had been converted to a mule at this point, it’s safe to assume that
Scattered Canary had already stolen as much money from her as they could. Over the next
eighteen months, Jane opened five mule accounts and bought twenty prepaid cards that were,
unbeknownst to her, used by the group to facilitate other scams.
After the new accounts were opened, Jane sent her fictitious online boyfriend the account
credentials, using passwords like weare4ever and 2hearts1love . Over time, these passwords
became things like 2muchmystery and iam2wornout as Jane grew tired of the mysterious
relationship with her online lover. Unfortunately and sadly, Jane passed away in September 2017.
Even after her death, though, Scattered Canary continued to victimize her. In October 2017, a
member of the group attempted to take out an auto loan using Jane’s personal information,
providing more evidence that these groups are only interested in one thing—money.
15
While losses related to romance scams are typically tracked on their own, romance and BEC
scams are very close cousins when it comes to fraud. In almost every case investigated by our
team, when banking details of a phishing email included a person’s name, that person was an
unwitting participant of the BEC game. Over the years, we have had the honor of speaking
with several victims. In many cases, the victims simply believed that they were in a legitimate
online relationship and were unaware of the fraud they were committing. The devastating
piece is that many of these victims spent years entangled in the scheme—in one case over nine
years—before being notified by external parties or law enforcement.