CHAIN OF EVENTS
RDP Breadcrumb that leads to a cloud decoy

The PowerPoint PPS file was opened, which in turn dropped the initial payload components.

The exploit used was CVE-2014-4114 (Sandworm).
Driver.inf content
1.


The endpoint was infected with the following executables:


sysvolinfo.exe – AutoIt compiled script.


PowerShell reverse shell HTTPS Meterpreter script – Was pulled from the C2 server
and was executed using the following requests:

212[.]129.13.110/dropper.php?profile=<base64 of
```
       [username@computername]>





```
    - `hxxps://45[.]43.192.172:8443/OxGN`


Files from the target laptop were being uploaded by the threat actor to the control server,

alongside significant activity on the encryption channel. We did not monitor the SSL encrypted
channel, in order to avoid detection in case Meterpreter’s “sstagerverifysslcert”
option was used.

The threat actor decided to drop the second stage malware, 7zip.exe, onto the infected

endpoint. The tool scanned the hard disk, and talked with 212[.]83.191.156 .

It copied itself as netvmon.exe into C:\Windows\SysWOW64\netvmon.exe and added

that path to the startup programs. This is how the threat actor achieves persistence.
Research 9
TLP: GREEN

Three days following the initial infection, alerts were received on the decoy running the SMB

shared folder indicating access by the threat actor.

The malware accessed the mapped share that was deployed as a breadcrumb on the infected

laptop while scanning all the drives for files. The actual function that caused the alert was
GetDriveTypeA (which is called to assure that only fixed drives are traversed).

After the first alerts in the system were generated, we saw connection attempts to our cloud

decoy via RDP. This decoy’s IP address was placed as an RDP credentials breadcrumb on the
target laptop. The alerts originated from 212[.]129.7.146, and the entire event lasted for
12 minutes.

The alerts we received in MazeRunner indicated that the attackers failed to log in several

times, which makes us believe that they pulled the RDP connection file (breadcrumb) that was
on the infected desktop. It is interesting to note that they didn’t mine the credentials using
mimikatz (which would have enabled them to connect to the cloud decoy with ease).


We believe this connection was carried out by the same threat actor because:


The IP they used to connect to our decoy also belongs to rev.poneytelecom.eu .


The event took place on the same day we received the alerts on our internal system.


This shows that the threat actor was deceived into exfiltrating data, deploying their second
stage persistence tool, and using the breadcrumbs that we left on the infected laptop.
Furthermore, if they had used mimikatz, they also would have succeeded in connecting to our
cloud decoy and be encouraged to deploy other, later stage tools.
Network layout
Research 10
TLP: GREEN