Introduction
Earlier this year, the SpiderLabs team at Trustwave investigated a series of bank breaches originating from post
Soviet states. These investigations took place during mid-to-late 2017, and each bank compromise resulted in a
significant amount of stolen funds. The actual amount of money stolen was different in each case, with the average
amount around USD$5 million (in cash), ranging from USD$3 to USD$10 million. The investigations showed that
the attacks shared a number of common features, such as involving large amount of monetary loss originating from
what initially appeared to be legitimate bank customer accounts. Additionally, in all cases, the theft took place using
normal cash withdrawals from various ATM terminal locations outside the bank’s originating country.
In some cases, the victim banks didn’t even realize that a breach had taken place and a significant amount of money
was stolen until well after the attack was completed. In a few cases, the malicious activity was reported to the banks
by third-party processors responsible for processing the bank’s debit and credit card transactions. The common
feature between these cases is that money was stolen using legitimate ATM cards provided by each bank.
Criminals used (or hired) people to personally visit the various branches and request new accounts with minimum or
zero initial deposit amounts. Beyond opening their “personal’ accounts, they also demanded to receive a debit card
with their new account. Initially this might not appear to be an issue since debit card usage is directly related to the
account’s balance. However, in the banking world, a service called “Overdraft” exists; simply put it means that under
very specific circumstances a debit card can be converted into a credit card. This means that the bank allows their
customer to withdraw cash even though they do not have the appropriate balance in their account. Of course, this is
supposed to happen only for specific account types, also referred to as risk levels.
After the debit cards were delivered to the customers, they were distributed outside the originating country to a
group of international conspirators. When all the cards had been relocated to their destination countries, a cyber
criminal, who had already breached the victim bank network, accessed the bank’s internal systems and manipulated
the debit cards’ features to enable a high overdraft level and removed anti-fraud controls that had been placed for
the specific accounts. Minutes later the operation continued in the countries where the debit cards had travelled.
The debit cards were used to perform cash withdrawals from several different ATMs. Within the next few hours the
operation concluded, removing up to USD$10 million from each bank.
We believe that the attack described in this report represents a clear and imminent threat to financial institutions in
European, North American, Asian and Australian regions within the next year. Currently the attacks are localized to
the Eastern European and Russian regions. However, in cybercrime, this area is often the canary in the mineshaft
for upcoming threats to other parts of the world. Our investigations have revealed victim losses currently around
approximately USD$40 million. However, when taking into account the undiscovered or uninvestigated attacks
along with investigations undertaken by internal groups or third parties, we estimate losses to be in the hundreds of
millions in USD. All global financial institutions should consider this threat seriously and take steps to mitigate it.
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
1
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study