focus on IT administrators.
For example, they could find such secrets in a Bash session
history or a text file in the root directory of the virtual machine’s
desktop. Such information can be used to access resources such
as databases, SharePoint sites, and cloud storage. If left
unimpeded, an attacker could continue gathering information
that could provide greater access to the enterprise infrastructure
and data.
Attacks against cloud administrators
Targeted attacks against on-premises and cloud infrastructures
alike often focus on IT administrators. The intent is to take
control of an email account that has a high probability of containing credentials
that can be used to gain access to the public cloud administrator portal.
After logging into the administrator portal, an attacker can gather information
and make changes to gain access to other cloud-based resources, execute
ransomware, or even pivot back to the on-premises environment, as explained
earlier.
Man in the Cloud (MitC) attacks
Another new threat is posed by what the security company Imperva has dubbed
“Man in the Cloud,” or MitC attacks, [1] In which an attacker induces a prospective
victim to install a piece of malware using a typical mechanism, such as an email
with a link to a malicious website. After the malware is downloaded and installed,
1 “Man in the Cloud (MITC) Attacks,” Imperva Hacker Intelligence Initiative Report,
https://www.imperva.com/docs/HII_Man_In_The_Cloud_Attacks.pdf.
4 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
it finds a cloud storage folder on the user’s computer. It then switches out the
user’s cloud storage synchronization token with the attacker’s token.
After the token switch, the attacker will receive copies of each file the user places
in cloud storage, which effectively makes the attacker a “man in the middle” for
cloud storage. One of the attacker’s advantages in this threat scenario is that the
malware is removed after the token is switched out, which makes it harder to
detect the compromise.
Side-channel attacks
In a side-channel attack, an attacker attempts to put a virtual machine on the
same physical server as the intended victim. If such a successful co-location can
be achieved, the attacker will be able to launch local attacks against the victim.
These attacks might include local DDoS, network sniffing, and man-in-the
middle attacks, all of which can be used to extract information.
It should be noted that side-channel attacks are not trivial. Microsoft Azure
employs a number of obfuscation methodologies to significantly decrease the
chances of such an attack succeeding.
Resource ransom
Ransomware is well-known in the desktop operating system space. This malware
restricts access to components of an operating system or to files stored on disk,
typically through encryption, and demands that the victim pay the attacker to
get the keys required to restore access.
Attackers have made similar attempts to hold cloud resources hostage by
breaking in to a prospective victim’s public cloud account using any one of a
number of methods, including some of the methods discussed in this section.
When they have control of the account, the attackers attempt to encrypt or
otherwise restrict access to as many cloud resources as possible. The attackers
then require the victim to pay the ransom to release the restricted resources.
The challenge for the attacker is to inform the victim that the attack has taken
place, and how to pay the ransom. Because servers usually don’t have signed in
users, attackers need to use methods other than those used for desktop
ransomware. One way an attacker can inform cloud resource ransom victims is
through the use of bot technology, which presents another, and perhaps
unexpected, use case for the new and growing ecosystem of bot technologies.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  5
Cloud weaponization
In the cloud weaponization threat scenario, an attacker establishes a foothold
within a cloud infrastructure by compromising and taking control of a few virtual
machines. The attacker can then use these virtual machines to attack,
compromise, and control thousands of virtual machines – some within the same
public cloud service provider as the initial attack, and others inside other public
cloud service providers.
Each of the compromised virtual machines has malware installed that establishes
a backdoor connection to the attacker’s command and control servers, from
which the attacker can issue commands to the thousands of compromised
virtual machines to attack targets throughout the Internet.
Cloud weaponization can be implemented in a number of ways using a variety
of attacks, including SSH, RDP, distributed denial-of-service (DDoS), unsolicited
messaging (spamming), port scanning, and port sweeping.
Azure actively monitors for cloud weaponization. Figure 1 shows the distribution
of the outbound attacks discovered (and in many cases mitigated) by Azure
Security Center’s advanced detection mechanisms.
Figure 1. Outbound attacks from Azure virtual machines, September 2016
SSH brute force
2.2%
Port sweeping
1.7%
Other
1.5%
Figure 2 and Figure 3 show where incoming and outgoing attacks originate
from.
6 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
Figure 2. Incoming attacks detected by Azure Security Center in September 2016, by country/region of origin
Figure 3. Outgoing communication to malicious IP addresses detected by Azure Security Center in September 2016, by address
location
The cyber kill chain: On-premises and in the cloud
The cyber kill chain is a model defined by analysts at Lockheed Martin to aid
decision making with regard to detecting and responding to threats. [2] This
2 Eric M. Hutchins, Michael J. Cloppert, Rohan M. Amin, Ph.D., “Intelligence-Driven Computer Network Defense
Informed by Analysis of Adversary Campaigns and Intrusion Kill Chains,” Lockheed Martin Corporation, 2011,
www.lockheedmartin.com/content/dam/lockheed/data/corporate/documents/LM-White-Paper-Intel-Driven-
Defense.pdf.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  7
model has become very popular with IT security groups within both small and
large IT organizations. It includes the following phases:
       Reconnaissance. The attacker determines the best targets by probing a

number of online and offline resources.
       Weaponization. Files (such as documents) can be changed in ways to make

them useful “weapons” against a target system and can also be used to
enable installation of malicious code.
       Delivery. Weaponized files are placed on the target.


       Exploitation. Weaponized files are “detonated” to take advantage of

weaknesses in the target operating system or applications.
       Installation. A back door mechanism is installed on the compromised device

so that that the attacker has persistent access.
       Command and control (C2). Malware on the compromised device

communicates with a command-and-control system that provides the
attacker with access to resources required to carry out actions.
       Actions on objectives. The attacker moves forward to carry out objectives,

which may be predefined, or evolve based on discovery.
The cyber kill chain was defined at a time when cloud computing was still
gaining traction and did not explicitly consider the some of the unique aspects
of cloud computing. There are some differences in how to approach the various
phases in the kill chain between on-premises and cloud computing scenarios.
Figure 4 reformulates the cyber kill chain phases to make it easier to understand
some of the differences in the cyber kill chain between on-premises and cloud
environments .
Figure 4. The cyber kill chain on-premises and in the public cloud
|PhaseActive reconnaissance|On-premisesHUMINT, OSINT (users)|Public cloudFoot printing (services)|
|---|---|---|
|Delivery|Browser, mail, USB_(user_interaction)|Hacking_(no user interaction)_|
|Exploitation|Client-side vulnerabilities|Server-side vulnerabilities|
|Persistence|File system based|Memory based|
|Internal reconnaissance|Custom tools|Built-in admin tools|
|Lateral movement|Machine pivot|Resource pivot|
8 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
Active reconnaissance
During the active reconnaissance phase, the attacker learns about the intended
victim to improve their chances of a successful attack. In the on-premises world,
the attacker can take advantage of social networks to learn information about
the target that can be used to induce the victim to download malware during
the delivery phase.
The same ruse isn’t as easy in the cloud. There’s no social
network for servers and services to help the attacker learn
more about them. The attacker must go through a time and
effort-intensive process of scanning the network, doing port
scans to discover devices, and then testing active service
ports. All this activity provides the defender an opportunity
for discovering the attacker’s activities.
Delivery