Backdoor Features
This backdoor uses a configuration file that contains information such as the C&C domain and connection
port, the directory and filename where the malware is copied, and the name and description of the service
that is created for persistence. The configuration is obfuscated by a simple algorithm embedded in the
PE file.
15 | Uncovering DRBControl: Inside the Cyberespionage Campaign Targeting Gambling Operations
Figure 13. Config decryption routine
When the malware is first run, the obfuscated configuration is appended to a randomly generated GUID
and stored in the HKLM (or HKCU)\SOFTWARE\Plus registry key inside the CFG value. When the backdoor
is run without arguments, it will create a copy of itself in the directory specified in the configuration file.
The malware then sets its persistence mechanism. Depending on the user privilege, it will either create a
service or modify the HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Microsoft\Windows\Run registry key to run itself with the
–PO argument. If necessary, it will also run itself with the –UC argument to bypass UAC.
The following arguments are handled (one at a time):


PO: Injects backdoor into svchost.exe via process hollowing and runs it with “-OE” argument


OE: Initializes all plug-ins and starts communication with C&C one of the threads runs the backdoor


with the –KG argument on every RDP session


UC: UAC bypass


KG: Keylogging feature initialization (discussed later)


Like in the type 1 backdoor, the RTTI information is available in this sample. The following classes were
observed:


CNet: Virtual class implemented by other network-related classes


CNetHttp: Class related to HTTP communication protocol


CNetTcp: Class related to TCP communication protocol


16 | Uncovering DRBControl: Inside the Cyberespionage Campaign Targeting Gambling Operations


CPlugin: Virtual class implemented by other classes


CFileManager: Class related to file handling (read, write, list, execute, etc.)


CKeylog: Class related to keylogging feature (discussed later)


CMuture: Class handling console input and output


CPortMap: Class handling socket binding


CShell: Class handling command execution via cmd.exe ; input and output are handled through


named pipes