Case Study: APT33
In this section, we will focus on some aspects of an actor group called APT33. APT33 is generally
considered to be responsible for many spear-phishing campaigns targeting the oil industry and its supply
chain. A lot has been published about APT33 already, but we will highlight some facts that were not
published before the release of our earlier blog post. [34] In particular, we will describe what measures
APT33 takes to obscure a dozen live C&C servers that have been used in extreme narrow targeting since
about 2016. We will also list IP addresses that have been used by APT33 to do reconnaissance and
botnet management since 2018.
APT33 is known to target not only the oil supply chain but also the aviation industry and military and
defense companies. We have observed that the group has had some limited success in infecting targets
related to oil, the U.S. military, and U.S. national security. For example, we found that in 2019 APT33 was
able to infect a U.S. company providing supporting services to national security.
APT33 has also compromised oil companies in Europe and Asia. A large oil company with a presence in
the U.K. and India had concrete APT33-related infections in the fall of 2018. Some of the IP addresses of
the oil company communicated with the C&C server times-sync.com, which hosted a so-called Powerton
C&C server from October to December 2018, and then again in 2019. A computer server in India owned
by a European oil company communicated with a Powerton C&C server used by APT33 for at least three
weeks in November and December 2019. We also observed that a large U.K.-based company offering
specialized services to oil refineries and petrochemical installations was likely compromised by APT33 in
the fall of 2018.
APT33 has attacked the supply chain of the oil industry broadly. For about two years, multiple spear
phishing campaigns of APT33 were sent from a compromised private website of a politician who had
a seat in the defense committee of the senate in a European country. The targets of these campaigns
included companies that operated oil tankers, IT companies that specialized in the oil industry, a publisher
of an online magazine that covered news on oil, and several manufacturers of valves and other industrial
equipment. APT33 has also been targeting a water facility that supplies potable water to a U.S. military
base for several years. But recent attack waves of APT33 indicate that the actor group has been targeting
companies more narrowly.
23 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
APT33’s best-known infection technique has been using social engineering through emails. It has been
using the same type of lure for several years: a spear-phishing email containing a job opening offer that
may look quite legitimate. There have been campaigns involving job openings in the oil and aviation
industries.
Table 1. Known job offering campaigns of APT33
The emails contain a link to a malicious .hta file. This .hta file will attempt to download a PowerShell
script, which may download additional malware from APT33 so that the group can gain persistence in
the network of the target. Some of the malware is quite generic in nature, while the others seem to be
used by APT33 alone. Table 1 lists some of the campaigns we were able to recover from data based on
feedback from the Trend Micro™ Smart Protection Network™ infrastructure. The company names in the
campaigns are not necessarily targets in the campaign, but they are usually part of the social lure used
in the campaigns.
24 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
Figure 8. PHP mailer script probably used by APT33. The script was hosted on the personal website
of a European senator who had a seat on his nation’s defense committee.
The job opening social engineering lures are used for a reason: Some of the targets actually get legitimate
email notifications about job openings for the same companies used in the spear-phishing emails. This
means that APT33 has some knowledge of what their targets are receiving from legitimate sources.
APT33 is known to be related to the destructive malware called StoneDrill and is possibly related to
attacks involving Shamoon, although we don’t have solid evidence for the latter.
Besides the relatively aggressive attacks of APT33 on the supply chain, we found that APT33 has been
using several C&C domains, listed in Table 2, for small botnets composed of about a dozen bots each. It
appears that APT33 has taken special care to make tracking more difficult.
The C&C domains are hosted on cloud-hosted proxies. These proxies relay URL requests from the
infected bots to back-ends at shared web servers that may host thousands of legitimate domains. These
back-ends are protected with special software that detects unusual probing from researchers. The back
ends report bot data back to a dedicated aggregator and bot control server that is on a dedicated IP
address. The APT33 actors connect to these aggregators via a private VPN with exit nodes that are
changed frequently. Using these VPN connections, the APT33 actors issue commands and retrieve data
from the bots. In the fall of 2019, we counted 10 live bot data-aggregating or bot-controlling servers, and
we tracked a couple of these servers for months. These aggregators get data from typically very few C&C
servers (around one or two). For every unique C&C domain, there are usually only a dozen or fewer victims.
25 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
Table 2. APT33 C&C domains for extreme narrow targeting
|t controllersround 10 IPs)|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
|||
Figure 9. Schema showing the multiple obfuscation layers used by APT33
Actors often use commercial VPN services to hide their whereabouts when administering C&C servers
and doing reconnaissance. Aside from VPN services that are available to anyone, we also see that actors
use private VPNs they set up for themselves. Setting one up can be easily done by renting a couple
of servers in data centers around the world and using open-source software like OpenVPN. Although
the connections from private VPNs still come from seemingly unrelated IP addresses around the world,
this kind of traffic is actually easier to track. Once we know that an exit node is mainly being used by a
26 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
particular actor, we can have a high degree of confidence about the attribution of the connections that
are made from the IP addresses of the exit node. For example, besides administering C&C servers from a
private VPN exit node, an actor might also be doing reconnaissance of targets’ networks.
In regard to APT33, we were able to track private VPN exit nodes for more than a year. We could cross
relate the exit nodes with admin connections to servers controlled by APT33. It appears that these private
VPN exit nodes are also used for reconnaissance of networks that are relevant to the supply chain of the
oil industry. More concretely, we witnessed IP addresses that we believe are under the control of APT33
doing reconnaissance on the networks of an oil exploration company in the Middle East, an oil company
in the U.S., and military hospitals in the Middle East.
APT33 used its private VPN to access websites of penetration testing companies, webmail services,
websites on vulnerabilities, and websites related to cryptocurrencies, and to read hacker blogs and
forums. The group also has a clear interest in websites that specialize in the recruitment of employees in
the oil and gas industry.
Table 3 shows a list of IP addresses that have been used by APT33. The IP addresses are likely to have
been used for a longer time than the time frames indicated in the table. The data can be used to determine
whether an organization was on the radar of APT33 for, say, reconnaissance or concrete compromises.
Table 3. IP addresses associated with a few private VPN exit nodes connected to APT33
27 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
Bot control
Reconnaissance on oil
and military targets
Accessing email and
cryptocurrency sites
Reading hacker
|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
||Accr|
blogs and forums
Threat actor
|OpenVPN|Col2|
|---|---|
|tor||
Figure 10. APT33’s usage of a private VPN
For any company in the oil and gas industry, it might be a good idea to cross-relate these IP addresses
with log files.
28 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry