Tradecraft discussion
We assess with high confidence that this malware is used to create an expansive, hard-to-attribute
infrastructure that can be used to serve multiple operational needs of the threat actor. Since the
affected devices are legitimately owned by businesses or individuals, malicious activity conducted
from infected devices could be mistakenly attributed to those who were actually victims of the
PDF created with the PDFmyURL actor The capabilities b ilt into the ario s stages and pl gins of the mal are are e tremel web to PDF API !
actor. The capabilities built into the various stages and plugins of the malware are extremely
versatile and would enable the actor to take advantage of devices in multiple ways.
Advanced threat actors, including nation-states, will try to make attribution of their cyber activities
extremely difficult, unless it is in their interest for it to be openly known that they conducted a
specific act. To this end, advanced threat actors use multiple techniques, including co-opting
infrastructure owned by someone else to conduct their operations. The actor could easily use
devices infected with this malware as hop points before connecting to their final victim in order to
obfuscate their true point of origin.
The malware can also be leveraged to collect data that flows through the device. This could be for
straightforward data-collection purposes, or to assess the potential value of the network that the
device serves. If the network was deemed as having information of potential interest to the threat
actor, they may choose to continue collecting content that passes through the device or to
propagate into the connected network for data collection. At the time of this posting, we have not
been able to acquire a third-stage plugin that would enable further exploitation of the network served
by the device. However, we have seen indications that it does exist, and we assess that it is highly
likely that such an advanced actor would naturally include that capability in malware that is this
modular.
Finally, this malware could be used to conduct a large-scale destructive attack by using the "kill"
command, which would render some or all of the physical devices unusable. This command is
present in many of the stage 2 samples we've observed, but could also be triggered by utilizing the
"exec" command available in all stage 2 samples. In most cases, this action is unrecoverable by
most victims, requiring technical capabilities, know-how, or tools that no consumer should be
expected to have. We are deeply concerned about this capability, and it is one of the driving reasons
we have been quietly researching this threat over the past few months.