REFORMIST POLITICIANS
The accounts of Iranian reformers are a primary target for Iranian threat actors. Though
reformers profess loyalty to the revolution and the Islamic Republic, they favor less state
intervention in society and a less confrontational foreign policy, prioritizing the country’s
national interests before revolutionary ideology. Consequently, they have been increasingly
purged from Iranian politics and there is a media and travel ban against their most prominent leader, former president Mohammad Khatami (who served from 1997 to 2005). [116]
After the Green Movement, associates of the former reformist presidential candidates
Mehdi Karroubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi were aggressively targeted by the regime
to try and stifle their activities, even those who had fled under threat of prosecution.
Unwilling to allow a repeat of the Green Movement, the regime tightened information
controls in the run-up to the 2013 presidential election of Hassan Rouhani. Access to
popular anticensorship tools was cut off, and internet speeds were throttled until after
the election results were announced. [117] During this time, several Iranian actors began to
concurrently target the accounts of Iranian political dissidents. [118] Offline, the families of
international Persian-language media employees were harassed, and reporters inside Iran
were subject to censorship or arrest. [119]
One of the first known cases of politically motivated hacking in Iran was when the blog
of Mohammad-Ali Abtahi, the former vice minister of the Ministry of Culture and
Islamic Guidance under Khatami, was defaced after he wrote about the arrest of bloggers
in 2005. [120] Since then, Abtahi has been repeatedly targeted and impersonated by different Iranian threat actors in credential theft and social engineering operations. [121] Abtahi’s
experience is emblematic of such group’s priority on reformists. Public figures in the reformist movement from all different segments of society and politics have been targeted.
Not only the overtly repressed activists connected to Khatami, Karroubi, and Mousavi
but former government officials, religious scholars, politicians, and professors.
42     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
The cyber operations against reformists have been broad, successful, and frequent. One
threat actor maintained access to a computer used by a reformist cleric and a deputy at a
prominent Iranian university for months, watching him conduct political operations and
media interviews. [122] Similarly, in December 2015 the Facebook account of Gholam Ali
Rajaee, a political activist close to former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, was used
to spearphish the accounts of journalists and others. [123]
The previous year, that same threat actor, Rocket Kit## ten, had also successfully compromised a number of The cyber operations former parliament members and other reformists in against reformists have
the diaspora, some of whom were later arrested.