Findings in brief
In May 2012, our team participated in the analysis of an as yet unknown malware, which we
internally call sKyWIper. Based on the information initially received, we understood that the
malware is an important piece of a targeted attack. When we started the analysis, we did
not know how many countries were affected, but we suspected that it was not limited to a
single country. Our suspicion was based on indications that pieces of the malware was
probably identified and uploaded from European parties onto binary analysis sites in the
past. During the investigation, we received information about systems infected by sKyWIper
in other countries, including Hungary, our home country. Hence, the suspicion became
evidence, and this made it clear for us that our findings must be disclosed by publishing this
report.
It is obvious from the list of its files that sKyWIper must be identical to the malware
described in the post http://www.certcc.ir/index.php?name=news&file=article&sid=1894
(from Iran National CERT (MAHER)) where it is called Flamer. For convenience, we keep our
naming of the malware and call it sKyWIper based on one of the filenames (~KWI) it uses for
temporary files.
sKyWIper’s constitution is quite complex with a large number of components and the
substantial size of some of its files. Therefore, providing its full analysis in a limited amount
of time was infeasible with our current resources. Our goal was to get a quick understanding
of the malware’s purpose, and to identify its main modules, storage formats, encryption
algorithms, injection mechanisms and activity in general. This report contains the results of
our analysis, which should help other researchers with more resources to get started and
continue the analysis producing more detailed results.
Our first insight suggests that sKyWIper is another info-stealer malware with a modular
structure incorporating multiple propagation and attack techniques, but further analysis may
discover components with other functionalities. In addition, sKyWIper may have been active
for as long as five to eight years, or even more. sKyWIper uses compression and encryption
techniques to encode its files. More specifically, it uses 5 different encryption methods (and
some variants), 3 different compression techniques, and at least 5 different file formats (and
some proprietary formats too). It also uses special code injection techniques. Quite
interestingly, sKyWIper stores information that it gathers on infected systems in a highly
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 2
structured format in SQLite databases. Another uncommon feature of sKyWIper is the usage
of the Lua scripting language.
sKyWIper has very advanced functionality to steal information and to propagate. Multiple
exploits and propagation methods can be freely configured by the attackers. Information
gathering from a large network of infected computers was never crafted as carefully as in
sKyWIper. The malware is most likely capable to use all of the computers’ functionalities for
its goals. It covers all major possibilities to gather intelligence, including keyboard, screen,
microphone, storage devices, network, wifi, Bluetooth, USB and system processes.
The results of our technical analysis support the hypotheses that sKyWIper was developed
by a government agency of a nation state with significant budget and effort, and it may be
related to cyber warfare activities.
sKyWIper is certainly the most sophisticated malware we encountered during our practice;
arguably, it is the most complex malware ever found.
MAJOR UPDATES:
05/30/2012 Kaspersky published much more details about modules
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 3