GOVERNMENT ENTITIES AND THREAT ACTORS
The coordinated timing of cyber operations with politically motivated arrests are a strong
indication of the Iranian government’s direct involvement. Since at least July 2014 a
pattern has emerged: individuals in the custody of the IRGC are forced to provide access to their online accounts and devices, which are then immediately used to conduct
spearphishing attacks associated with known threat actors.
A vivid example of this coordination is the case of Iranian-American Siamak Namazi, a
forty-six-year-old Dubai-based energy consultant and previously a scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, DC. In October 2015, he
was arrested by Iranian security forces months after having had his passport confiscated
while visiting the country. Within hours of his arrest, Namazi’s Google and Facebook
accounts initiated conversations with his wide array of foreign policy and media contacts.
The intruder, pretending to be Namazi, sent contacts an article about the recent nuclear
deal and in poor English solicited edits on the document. This message was accompanied
by an email directing the target to a fake Google site requiring visitors sign in to their
account to view the document, a credential theft attempt connected to Rocket Kitten.
Numerous individuals were compromised in this campaign, including scholars, U.S.
State Department employees, and one prominent journalist whose Gmail account—
which included communications with former U.S. secretaries of state, CIA directors, and
other foreign ministers—was overtaken by the Iranian hackers for nearly two days. [68] This
pattern has been repeated in numerous cases involving other Iranians, dual nationals, and
foreign nationals detained in Iran.
26     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
Cyber operations have also been documented in preparation for arrests. [69] A prominent
example of target selection prior to arrest is the case of Babak Zanjani, an Iranian-Danish
businessman who had been personally sanctioned by the United States and European
Union for involvement in Iranian sanctions evasion. After months of claims regarding his
role in the embezzlement of oil revenue, a process that included a parliamentary investigation, at the end of December 2013 Zanjani was arrested and subsequently charged with “corruption on