Evolution of a Wiper
The wiper was the final payload used in all four incidents. The different names — Meteor, Stardust or Comet, depending on the version — weren’t the only difference between the variants. During
the evolution of 3 generations, the attackers introduced several changes in the tool, some are more significant than others. Key changes between the different variants of the wiper are explained below.
Comet is the earliest variant we have, and it might as well be the first to be created. Unlike Stardust and Meteor, it does reference and makes use of all the strings and features inside it. The others
contained the artifacts, while the code itself did not utilize them. Comet has a Kill Switch based on values from the config file including the server IP, port, URL path, and a number of requests to
perform before aborting. It tries to connect to the server and if it doesn’t get a response, or the response status is not 200 OK it aborts. In addition, the oldest variant creates a user as an Administrator
using NetUserAdd and NetLocalGroupAddMembers APIs. Then it disables the first logon animation, as well as the first logon Privacy Settings screen. Finally, it adds itself to the auto logon based on a
path it has in its configuration.
Unlike Meteor, Stardust and Comet do not override the boot. ini file during their attempts to corrupt the boot configuration. This feature, only relevant for Windows versions prior to Windows 7,
only exists in the Meteor version. The earliest version, Comet, does not contain the ability to corrupt boot configurations at all.
[boot loader]
timeout=0
default=multi(0)disk(10000000)rdisk(0)partition(1000000)\WINDOWS
[operating systems]
multi(0)disk(10000000)rdisk(0)partition(1000000)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect
The content Meteor writes to boot. ini.
Stardust and Comet use “Lock My PC 4”, a tool that restricts unauthorized use which used to be publicly available. After running the Lock My PC program, they remove the “hkSm” registry value to
delete the generated lock password, then delete the uninstaller of the tool to make it harder to recover system functionality. This functionality is not used in Meteor, even though it has related artifacts.
The configuration files used in the attacks against the Syrian targets utilized more fields than the configurations that were used against the Iranian targets. These fields include process_to_kill,
paths_to_wipe, log_server_ip, and log_server_port . Their content sheds the light on the targets of these operations and indicates that the attacker had access to the targeted networks prior to
deploying the final attack.
The log_server_ip and log_server_port configuration fields are used by the Stardust wiper to send a Base64-encoded log file to the remote server. The request is sent via HTTP POST to the
data.html resource on the server. The configs that we obtained contain different values for the servers, disclosing two IP addresses that were used by the attackers.