EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Since early 2014, an attacker group of Iranian origin has been actively targeting persons
of interest by means of malware infection, supported by persistent spear phishing
campaigns. This cyber-espionage group was dubbed ‘Rocket Kitten,’ and remains active
as of this writing, with reported attacks as recent as October 2015.
The Rocket Kitten group and its attacks have been analyzed on numerous occasions by
several vendors and security professionals, resulting in various reports describing the
group’s method of operation, tools and techniques.
Characterized by relatively unsophisticated technical merit and extensive use of spear
phishing, the group targeted individuals and organizations in the Middle East (including
targets inside Iran itself), as well as across Europe and in the United States. Many of these
targets were successfully compromised by various pieces of custom-written malware;
and despite identification and flagging of their infrastructure, the attackers have struck
again-and-again by making minor changes to their tools or phishing domains.
Check Point has obtained a complete target listing from the attackers’ servers; among
confirmed victims are high ranking defense officials, embassies of various target
countries, notable Iran researchers, human rights activists, media and journalists,
academic institutions and various scholars, including scientists in the fields of physics
and nuclear sciences.
This report provides a summary of the findings including:

New evidence obtained during Check Point’s independent investigation into attacker

infrastructure, including previously unpublished malware indicators.

Information that appears to reveal the full extent of operations over the past year, and

provides unique insight into target profiles and attacker operation internals.

Analysis of attack data to reveal details on victims and specific industries that may

have special significance to Iranian political and military interests.

Analysis of attacker mistakes that appear to reveal the true identity of the main devel­
oper behind the group’s activities (a.k.a. “Wool3n.H4T”), detailed for the first time.

It is our hope this report and measures taken over the past few weeks lead to an effective
shutdown of attacker operations (current generation of tools and infrastructure). While
Check Point customers are protected against all known variants of this threat, we urge
fellow security vendors and malware research professionals to extend malicious IoC
(Indicators-of-Compromise) coverage in current protection infrastructure.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  3