The Commercial Interest
As has been stated above, APTs can target any commercial company if cyber-criminals find a way to financially
profit from the attack.
So what methods do cyber-criminals use to generate illicit earnings from attacks on gaming companies?
Based on the available information, we have singled out three main monetization schemes that could be used by
the Winnti team.

The unfair accumulation of in-game currency/“gold” in online games and the conversion of virtual funds

into real money.

Theft of source code from the online games server to search for vulnerabilities in games – often linked to

point 1.

Theft of source code from the server part of popular online games to further deploy pirate servers.

Let’s look at an example. During our investigation of an infection at a computer gaming company, we found that
malware had been created for a particular service on the company’s server. The malicious program was looking for
a specific process running on the server, injected code into it, and then sought out two places in the process code
where it could conceal call commands for its function interceptors. Using these function interceptors, the malicious
programs modified process data which was processed in those two places, and returned control back. Thus, the
attackers change the normal execution of the server processes. Unfortunately, the company was not able to share
its targeted application with us, and we cannot say exactly how this malicious interference affected gaming
processes. The company concerned told us that the attackers’ aim was to acquire gaming “gold” illegally.
Malicious activity like this has an adverse impact on the game itself, tilting the balance in favor of cheats. But any
changes the Winnti team introduces into the game experience are unlikely to be very noticeable. After all,
maintaining a skillful balance is the main attribute of online games. Users will simply stop playing if they feel that
other players are using non-standard methods to create an advantage beyond normal gameplay or if the game
loses its intrinsic competitiveness due to resources or artifacts appearing in the game without the developers’
knowledge. At the same time, the attackers are keen for the game to remain popular; otherwise, they would be
unable to effectively turn all the time and effort of infecting a gaming company into financial gain.
Members of the Winnti team are patient and cautious. Cyber-criminals have affected the processes of the online
games from the infected companies and stolen money from them for years, but they have found ways of doing this
without attracting attention to themselves.
PAGE 9| “Winnti” | More than just a game