2.3. The Procera/Sandvine value proposition
A Procera “use cases” brochure has a section on “Regulatory Compliance – Traffic 3
Blocking.” The section links to a 2002 article by Electronic Frontiers Australia entitled
“Internet Censorship: Law & policy around the world” and mentions that “Procera’s
solutions provide the capabilities to identify and block, or shape down to become
unusable, any identifiable service network wide or on an individual subscriber basis.”
Procera appears to have pitched its services as a win-win for both ISPs and governments
that require Internet censorship solutions, or as a way for ISPs to save money while
implementing regulatory requirements that do not generate any revenue:
“Operators that are required to filter content from their networks by governmental
regulations are struggling to find solutions that can keep up with the explosive bandwidth
growth of the past few years. Many telecom operators are required to invest several racks
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 5/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
worth of equipment for a single use case with no return on investment through additional
ARPU from subscribers.”
The document describes the close ongoing relationship Procera may have maintained
with its clients to help them implement “regulatory requirements,” in some cases
apparently having a Procera employee assist government clients with censorship:
“As an example, adult content can be opted in on an individual bases [sic] or services like
Skype could be enabled for corporate clients only. Procera updates it’s [sic] signature
database on a weekly basis to stay up to date on changes in what traffic looks like.
Blocking proprietary over-the-top services will always remain a cat and mouse game that
requires local dedicated personnel to perform well. Procera can provide these resident
engineering services.”
Sandvine appears to offer instructor-led training sessions, such as the “Operating with
PacketLogic” course. If desired, Sandvine can offer such courses as a “customer-exclusive
session delivered at the customer’s location“.