Predictions
Based on the trends we’ve seen over the last three months, as well as foreseeable
geopolitical events, we have listed a few predictions for the upcoming quarter (Q3). As
always, this isn’t an exact science and some cases won’t come to fruition. Analyzing
current and future events and combining those with the motivations of known active
actors can help organizations prepare for likely forthcoming activity:

Misinformation campaigns will remain a threat to countries with upcoming

elections, specifically Germany and Norway, as they have been previous targets
for Eastern European based actors.
2. ‘Lawful Surveillance’ tools will continue to be utilized by governments that don’t
have well-established Cyber Operations capabilities, mainly based out of the
Middle East. Companies such as Gamma Group, Hacking Team, and NSO will
continue to offer new zero-day exploits to those customers. As prices increase
and exchanges thrive, new organizations and marketplaces will continue
popping up.
3. Destructive malware disguised as ransomware will continue to be a problem. In
the last quarter we’ve seen two instances of this, and with the continued release
of tools / exploits from dumps like Vault7 and ShadowBrokers, this is going to
be a new alarming trend to deal with.
6/8

In China, the past months have been marked by the dwindling economic

growth, rising tensions with North Korea and the US, and increased exchanges
between South Korean / Japanese / American organizations. In addition to
these, the 19th Party Congress is set to be held in the fall of 2017 and according
to multiple public predictions, it is likely that some major changes will happen in
the leadership. It’s possible that these events will have wide regional influences
that could affect the way that threat actors operate in Asia, both in terms of
targeting and TTPs.
5. Targeting energy-related companies and organizations will be on the rise.
Countries such as Norway may be a top target moving forward given their
control on oil and gas in the region in the buildup to an election. Saudi Arabia
will also top the charts for potential targeting as they have in years past.
6. Lower-tier threat actors continue to increase cyber-espionage efforts and
capabilities both in complexity and size. Expect more activity with varied
technical capabilities coming from lesser known or previously unseen actors.