In the beginning …
In the autumn of 2011, a Trojan was detected on a large number of computers – all of them linked by the fact that
they were used by players of a popular online game. It emerged that the piece of malware landed on users’
computers as part of a regular update from the game’s official update server. Some even suspected that the
publisher itself was spying on its customers. However, it later became clear that the malicious program ended up
on the users’ computers by mistake: the cybercriminals were in fact targeting the companies that develop and
release computer games.
The computer game publisher whose servers spread the Trojan asked Kaspersky Lab to analyze the malicious
program that was found on its update server. It turned out to be a DLL library compiled for a 64-bit Windows
environment and even used a properly signed malicious driver.
The malicious DLL infected gamers’ computers running under either 32-bit or 64-bit operating systems. It could not
start in 32-bit environments, but it could, under certain conditions, launch without the user’s knowledge or
consent in 64-bit environments, though no such accidental launches have been detected.
The DLL contained a backdoor payload, or, to be exact, the functionality of a fully-fledged Remote Administration
Tool (RAT), which gave the cyber-criminals the ability to control the victim computer without the user’s knowledge.
The malicious module turned out to be the first Trojan for the 64-bit version of Microsoft Windows with valid
digital signature that we have seen. We used to see similar cases before, but in all previous incidents we have seen
digital signature abuse, there were only 32-bit applications.
At an early stage of our research, we identified a number of similar backdoors, both 32-bit and 64-bit, in our
collection of malware samples. Thesewere detected under various verdicts. We grouped them together into a
separate family. Symantec appears to be the first to name these malicious programs; we kept Symantec’s name –
PAGE 2| “Winnti” | More than just a game
Winnti – in the name of the malware family we created: Backdoor.Win32(Win64).Winnti. As for the people behind
these attacks involving this remote administration tool, we ended up calling them “the Winnti group”.
Interestingly, the digital signature belonged to another video game vendor - a private company known as KOG,
based in South Korea. The main business of this company was MMRPG (massively multi player online role-playing
games) games, which was identical to the business area of the first victim.
We contacted KOG, whose certificate was used to sign malicious software and notified Verisign, which issued the
certificate for KOG. As a result, the certificate was revoked.