Enumeration Tools/Unique Directory Structure
Throughout our StellarParticle investigations, CrowdStrike identified what appeared to be a
VBScript-based Active Directory enumeration toolkit. While the script’s contents have not been
recovered to date, CrowdStrike has observed identical artifacts across multiple StellarParticle
engagements that suggest the same or similar tool was used.
In each instance the tool was used, Shellbags data indicated that directories with random
names of a consistent length were navigated to by the same user that ran the tool. After two
levels of randomly named directories, Shellbags proved the existence of subdirectories named
after the FQDNs for the victims’ various domains. In addition, the randomly named directories
are typically created in a previously existing directory that’s one level off of the root of the C
drive. The randomly named directories have a consistent length where the first directory is six
characters and the next directory is three characters. To date, the names of the directories
have always been formed from lowercase alphanumeric characters. For example, Shellbags
indicated that directories matching the naming patterns below were browsed to (where “XX” is
a previously existing directory on the system):
In each case, immediately prior to the creation of the directories referenced above, there was
evidence of execution of a VBScript file by the same user that browsed to the directories. This
evidence typically came from a UserAssist entry for wscript.exe, as well as RecentApps
entries for wscript.exe (that would also include the VBScript filename). In addition, the Jump
List for wscript.exe contained evidence of the VBScript files. The name of the VBScript files
varied across engagements and was generally designed to look fairly innocuous and blend in.
Two examples are env.vbs and WinNet.vbs . Due to the subdirectories that are named
after the FQDNs for victim domains, CrowdStrike assesses with moderate confidence that the
scripts represent an AD enumeration tool used by the adversary.