Evolution of the ESPecter bootkit
When we looked at our telemetry, we were able to date the beginnings of this bootkit back to at least
2012. At its beginning, it used MBR (Master Boot Record) modification as its persistence method and its
authors were continuously adding support for new Windows OS versions. What is interesting is that the
malware’s components have barely changed over all these years and the differences between 2012 and
2020 versions are not as significant as one would expect.
After all the years of insignificant changes, those behind ESPecter apparently decided to move their
malware from legacy BIOS systems to modern UEFI systems. They decided to achieve this by modifying
a legitimate Windows Boot Manager binary (bootmgfw.efi) located on the ESP while supporting
multiple Windows versions spanning Windows 7 through Windows 10 inclusive. As we mentioned
earlier, this method has one drawback – it requires that the Secure Boot feature be disabled in order to
successfully boot with a modified boot manager. However, it’s worth mentioning that the first Windows
version supporting Secure Boot was Windows 8, meaning that all previous versions are vulnerable to
this persistence method.
For Windows OS versions that support Secure Boot, the attacker would need to disable it. For now, it’s
unknown how the ESPecter operators achieved this, but there are a few possible scenarios:
The attacker has physical access to the device (historically known as an “evil maid” attack) and
manually disables Secure Boot in the BIOS setup menu (it is common for the firmware
configuration menu to still be labeled and referred to as the “BIOS setup menu”, even on UEFI
systems).
Secure Boot was already disabled on the compromised machine (e.g., user might dual-boot
Windows and other OSes that do not support Secure Boot).
Exploiting an unknown UEFI firmware vulnerability that allows disabling Secure Boot.
Exploiting a known UEFI firmware vulnerability in the case of an outdated firmware version or a
no-longer-supported product.