Data Reconnaissance
The implant receives commands over SSL as encoded data. This data is decoded, and the
correct command ID is derived. Valid command IDs reside between 0 and 0x1D.
Switch case handling command execution based on command IDs.
Based on the command ID, the implant can perform the following functions:
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Gather system information and exfiltrate to the control server (same as the basic data
gathering functionality previously described)
Get volume information for all drives on the system (A: through Z:) and exfiltrate to the
control server
Gathering volume information.
List files in a directory. The directory path is specified by the control server.
Read the contents of a file and send it to the control server
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Reading file contents and sending it the control server.
Write data sent by the control server to a specified file path
Open handle to a file for writing with no shared permissions.
Writing data received from control server to file.
Create new processes based on the file path specified by the control server.
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Creating a new process for a binary specified by the control server.
Wipe and delete files specified by the control server
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Wiping and deleting files.
Execute a binary on the system using cmd.exe and log the results into a temp file,
which is then read and the logged results are sent to the control server. The command
line:
cmd.exe /c “ > %temp%\PM*.tmp 2>&1”
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Executing a command and logging results to a temp file.
Get information for all currently running processes
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Getting process times for all processes on the system.
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Getting username and domain from accounts associated with a running process.
Delete itself from disk using a batch file.
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
Creating a batch file for self-deletion.
Store encoded data received from the control server as a registry value at:
HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\TowConfigs Description
Set and get the current working directory for the implant
Setting and getting the current working directory for the implant’s process.
The command handler index table is organized in the implant as follows:
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
The command handler index table.