Coin miner deployment and credential theft
As mentioned, BISMUTH deployed coin miners during these attacks. To do this, they first
dropped a .dat file and loaded the file using rundll32.exe, which in turn downloaded a copy
of the 7-zip tool named 7za.exe and a ZIP file. They then used 7-Zip to extract a Monero coin
miner from the ZIP file and registered the miner as a service named after a common Virtual
Machine process. Each coin miner they deployed had a unique wallet address that earned
over a thousand U.S. dollars combined during the attacks.
After deploying coin miners as their distraction technique, BISMUTH then focused much of
its efforts on credential theft. They registered multiple malicious services that
used %comspec% —a relative reference to cmd.exe commonly used by attackers—to run the
renamed DebugView tool while loading a malicious DLL. The group used DebugView and the
malicious DLL in a fairly unexpected fashion to launch Base64-encoded Mimikatz
commands using one of several Windows processes: makecab.exe, systray.exe, w32tm.exe,
bootcfg.exe, diskperf.exe, esentutl.exe, and typeperf.exe .
They ran the following Mimikatz commands that require SYSTEM or Debug privileges:
sekurlsa::logonpasswords full –lists all account and user password hashes, typically
user and computer credentials for recently logged on users
lsadump::lsa /inject —injects LSASS to retrieve credentials and request the LSA Server
to grab credentials from the Security Account Manager (SAM) database and Active
Directory (AD)
After running these commands, the co-opted DebugView tool connected to multiple attackercontrolled domains, likely to exfiltrate stolen credentials.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-heres-how-to-spot-them/ 5/8
12/1/2020 Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them - Microsoft Security
As the affected organizations worked to evict BISMUTH from their networks, Microsoft
security researchers saw continued activity involving lateral movement to other devices,
credential dumping, and planting of multiple persistence methods. This highlights the
complexity of responding to a full-blown intrusion and the significance of taking quick action
to resolve alerts that flag initial stages of an attack.