Preventative measures:
1. Update all security devices, windows servers and workstations with the latest updates
and signatures.
2. Ensure to block VirtualBox’s driver (i.e. vboxdrv.sys) from loading on all systems. This
can be done by blocking the following hash on EDR/Anti-virus system:
 - eaea9ccb40c82af8f3867cd0f4dd5e9d, The driver might be renamed so

blocking the filename would not be sufficient.
3. Ensure that service accounts are not member of the Domain/Enterprise Admins or
Administrators groups.
4. Ensure that privileged accounts are not shared or used as service accounts.
5. Implement privileged access workstations (PAWs) for personnel with administrative
privileges. PAWs should be physically secured devices, and cannot be accessed
remotely. Administrative tasks, such as Remote access, can only be performed from
these workstations.
6. Implement Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS) on servers and workstations
to prevent Pass-the-hash attacks and other similar internal pivoting attacks, it
mitigates the risk of lateral escalation that results when you have the same
administrative local account and password combination on many computers.
7. Prevent the local admin account from authenticating over the network as specified in:
https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/secguide/2014/09/02/blocking-remote-use-of-localaccounts/
8. Validate the business requirements and the risks of allowing Virtual Private Network
(SSL VPN) connections. By checking the following:
 - Ensure the access control list is properly configured (Unused accounts,

default accounts, resigned users, test accounts.)
 - Block access for administrators and management users with high privileges.

 - Implement Multi-factor authentication (MFA) for allowed users.

 - Prevent access from countries known for malicious activities.

 - Implement a Lockout mechanism for failed attempts after a specific number

e.g 3 failed attempts.
 - Enable access logging for successful and failed attempts.

 - Review (if enabled) the access logs for at least six months for any uncommon

or suspicious logs. For example: unusual access times, unusual source
locations, unusual users from different location, high number of failed
attempts to logon, access from external VPN services or infrastructure of
other compromised organizations.
15
Destructive Attack “DUSTMAN”
Technical Report
 - If the used SSLVPN solution is a product of Palo Alto, Pulse Secure or Fortinet,

Perform a comprehensive review on logs, account usage and any
configuration changes.
9. Reset passwords for all privileged accounts including domain administrators’
accounts, network devices accounts.
10. Prevent workstation-to-workstation communications using host-based firewalls. The
default policy should be to deny all incoming connection requests. Exceptions should
be made for connections originating from domain controllers, patch management or
configuration servers, systems belonging to helpdesk personnel, and other systems
that have a business need to connect to workstations.
11. Disable and delete PowerShell V2, and Ensure to only allow PowerShell V5, or
PowerShell V6 across the organization. If possible, prevent the execution of
PowerShell on machines not requiring the usage of PowerShell.
12. Ensure that all privileged activities are logged, also ensure to enable Command-line
                                   -                                       Logging through: https://docs.microsoft.com/en us/windows

server/identity/adds/manage/componentupdates/command-line-process-auditing
13. It's critical to review any generated data to detect active compromises
14. If MFA is not present, it is highly recommended to disable all Remote Access Services
until it is properly implemented.
15. If SMS is used as an MFA method, ensure that users cannot change the assigned
number without being reviewed and verified by an administrator.
16. Backup all Critical servers/data and make sure to have an offline backup isolated from
the network and perform a restore test to validate the backups