Attacker Tactics Techniques and Procedures Description
Direct attribution is unnecessary to learn from this attack and to consider mitigation strategies; it is only
necessary to use the mental model of how the cyber actor works to understand the capabilities and general
profile against which one is defending. The motive and sophistication of this power grid attack is consistent with
a highly structured and resourced actor. This actor was co-adaptive and demonstrated varying tactics and
techniques to match the defenses and environment of the three impacted targets. The mitigation section of this
document provides mitigation concepts related to the attack and how to develop a more lasting mitigation
strategy by anticipating future attacks.
Capability
The attackers demonstrated a variety of capabilities, including spear phishing emails, variants of the BlackEnergy
3 malware, and the manipulation of Microsoft Office documents that contained the malware to gain a foothold
into the Information Technology (IT) networks of the electricity companies. [13] They demonstrated the capability
to gain a foothold and harvest credentials and information to gain access to the ICS network. Additionally, the
attackers showed expertise, not only in network connected infrastructure; such as Uninterruptable Power
Supplies (UPSs), but also in operating the ICSs through supervisory control system; such as the Human Machine
Interface (HMI), as shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Control & Operate: SCADA Hijacking Techniques
Finally, the adversaries demonstrated the capability and willingness to target field devices at substations, write
custom malicious firmware, and render the devices, such as serial-to-ethernet convertors, inoperable and
13 For a discussion around the history of the BlackEnergy 3 malware and Sandworm team see the SANS ICS webcast with iSight here:
https://www.sans.org/webcasts/analysis-sandworm-team-ukraine-101597
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
1
Attacker Tactics Techniques and Procedures Description
unrecoverable. [14] In one case, the attackers also used telephone systems to generate thousands of calls to the
energy company’s call center to deny access to customers reporting outages. However, the strongest capability
of the attackers was not in their choice of tools or in their expertise, but in their capability to perform long-term
reconnaissance operations required to learn the environment and execute a highly synchronized, multistage,
multisite attack.
The following is a consolidated list of the technical components used by the attackers, graphically depicted in
Figure 3:


Spear phishing to gain access to the business networks of the oblenergos


Identification of BlackEnergy 3 at each of the impacted oblenergos


Theft of credentials from the business networks


The use of virtual private networks (VPNs) to enter the ICS network


The use of existing remote access tools within the environment or issuing commands directly from a
remote station similar to an operator HMI


Serial-to-ethernet communications devices impacted at a firmware level [15]


The use of a modified KillDisk to erase the master boot record of impacted organization systems as well
as the targeted deletion of some logs [16]


Utilizing UPS systems to impact connected load with a scheduled service outage


Telephone denial-of-service attack on the call center


Figure 3: Ukraine Attack Consolidated Technical Components
At various points in the public reporting on the attack, organizations have indicated that BlackEnergy 3 and
KillDisk itself could be directly responsible for the outage. One of the items specifically highlighted to support
14
http://mpe.kmu.gov.ua/minugol/control/uk/publish/article;jsessionid=CE1C739AA046FF6BA00FE8E8A4D857F3.app1?art id=24508688
6&cat id=35109
15 To learn about serial to ethernet converters and the types of vulnerabilities that exist to them see DigitalBond’s Basecamp report here:
https://www.digitalbond.com/blog/2015/10/30/basecamp-for-serial-converters/
16 http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/destructive-disakil-malware-linked-ukraine-power-outages-also-used-against-media-
organizations
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
2
Attacker Tactics Techniques and Procedures Description
this theory was that KillDisk deleted a process on Windows systems linked to serial-to-ethernet
communications. [17] Regardless of the impact of the SCADA network environment, neither BlackEnergy 3 nor
KillDisk contained the required components to cause the outage. The outages were caused by the use of the
control systems and their software through direct interaction by the adversary. All other tools and technology,
such as BlackEnergy 3 and KillDisk, were used to enable the attack or delay restoration efforts.
Opportunities
Multiple opportunities existed for the adversary to execute its attack. External to the oblenergos and prior to
the attack, there was a variety of open-source information available; including a detailed list of types of
infrastructure such as Remote Terminal Unit (RTU) vendors and versions posted online by ICS vendors. [18] The
VPNs into the ICS from the business network appear to lack two-factor authentication. Additionally, the firewall
allowed the adversary to remote admin out of the environment by utilizing a remote access capability native to
the systems. In addition, based on media reporting, there did not appear to be any resident capability to
continually monitor the ICS network and search for abnormalities and threats through active defense measures;
like network security monitoring. These vulnerabilities would have provided the adversary the opportunity to
persist within the environment for six months or more to conduct reconnaissance on the environment and
subsequently execute the attack. [19]
Based on the details provided in the DHS report, the adversary used a consistent attack approach on all three
impacted targets. The adversary also used consistent tactics to impact field controllable elements and
irreparably damage field devices.
Why these oblenergos were targeted remains an open debate. Based on the public reporting, it is unknown if
the targets were selected based on common technologies in use, system architectures, reconnaissance
operations, or service territories. Opportunity-based considerations for selecting a specific target may focus on
an attacker’s confidence and ability to cause an ICS effect. Some example decision factors could include:


Targets with common systems and configurations


Multiple systems with common centralized control points


ICS impact duration estimates (e.g., long term or short term)


Existing capabilities required to achieve desired results


Risk level of performing the operation and being discovered


Achieved access and ability to move and act within the environment


17 http://www.eset.com/int/about/press/articles/malware/article/eset-finds-connection-between-cyber-espionage-and-electricity-
outage-in-ukraine/
18 http://galcomcomp.com/index.php/ru/nashi-proekty/15-proekt3-material-ru
19 http://mobile.reuters.com/article/idUSKCN0VL18E
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
3