6. What is GRAYFISH?
GRAYFISH is the most modern and sophisticated malware implant from
the Equation group. It is designed to provide an effective (almost “invisible”)
persistence mechanism, hidden storage and malicious command execution
inside the Windows operating system.
By all indications, GrayFish was developed between 2008 and 2013 and is
compatible with all modern versions of Microsoft’s operating systems, including
Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and 8 –
both 32-bit and 64-bit versions.
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
10
GrayFish includes a highly sophisticated bootkit, which is more complex than any
we’ve seen before. This suggests developers of the highest caliber are behind its
creation.
When the computer starts, GrayFish hijacks the OS loading mechanisms by injecting
its code into the boot record. This allows it to control the launching of Windows
at each stage. In fact, after infection, the computer is not run by itself more: it is
GrayFish that runs it step by step, making the necessary changes on the fly.
After GrayFish starts Windows, it launches a multi-stage mechanism (four to five
stages) of decryption to achieve code execution within the Windows environment.
It then runs the functional modules that are stored inside the Windows registry.
Each stage decodes and executes the next, and the entire platform will only start
after successful execution of all levels. If an error happens during launch, the
entire GrayFish platform self-destructs.
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
11
The GrayFish bootloader mechanism
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
12
To store stolen information, as well as its own auxiliary information, GrayFish
implements its own encrypted Virtual File System (VFS) inside the Windows registry.
To bypass modern OS security mechanisms that block the execution of untrusted
code in kernel mode, GrayFish exploits several legitimate drivers, including one
from the CloneCD program. This driver (ElbyCDIO.sys) contains a vulnerability which
GrayFish exploits to achieve kernel-level code execution. Despite the fact that the
vulnerability was discovered in 2009, the digital signature has not yet been revoked.
The GrayFish implementation appears to have been designed to make it invisible
to antivirus products. When used together with the bootkit, all the modules as well
as the stolen data are stored in encrypted form in the registry and dynamically
decrypted and executed. There are no malicious executable modules at all on
the filesystem of an infected system.
An interesting observation: the first stage GRAYFISH loader computes the SHA-256
hash of the NTFS of system folder (%Windows% or %System%) Object_ID one
thousand times. The result is used as an AES decryption key for the next stage.
This is somewhat similar to Gauss, which computed the MD5 hash over the
name of its target folder 10,000 times and used the result as the decryption key.