Notable Activity
become desperate for access to a victim’s infrastructure. This occurred
in October 2014 when the Chinese adversary tracked by CrowdStrike as
HURRICANE PANDA deployed a tool called Win64.exe on a compromised
system that was used to invoke other programs with elevated privileges.
Analysis of the Win64.exe binary revealed that it exploits a previously
unknown vulnerability to elevate its privileges to those of the SYSTEM user
and then create a new process with these access rights to run the command
that was passed as an argument. The file itself is only 55 kilobytes in size and
contains just a few functions.
First, the exploit gained kernel execution by corrupting memory in the
Windows window manager and used this increased level of authority to
overwrite an access token in the EPROCESS structure of the user-mode
process with that of the SYSTEM process. From this elevation, any command
passed to the executable was executed with elevated privileges. The
vulnerability was present in both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures of Windows
from Windows XP to Windows 7.
The code to perform these steps is extremely well written and fully reliable.
The adversary has gone through considerable effort to minimize the
chance of its discovery. The exploit tool was only deployed when absolutely
necessary during the intrusion operations, and it was deleted immediately
after use.
A build timestamp of the Win64.exe binary of 3 May 2014 suggests that
the vulnerability was actively exploited in the wild for at least five months
prior to discovery. What is more, after being able to characterize the
exploit, earlier versions were found that indicate constant development of
privilege-escalation tools. In fact, some tools were found with exploits for
similar vulnerabilities that have been addressed by Microsoft in patches
released earlier in 2014. These tools share an overall structure with the
new one, indicating that the same code was used to weaponize privilege
escalation exploits for different security bugs. These observations suggest
that HURRICANE PANDA maintains an arsenal of exploits for unpatched
privilege-escalation vulnerabilities.
36