Targeting
The network was principally leveraged against US and Israeli targets in public and private sectors,
though additional targeting included personnel from the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq,
Afghanistan and elsewhere. Though it is possible anyone connected to the network was compromised,
deliberate attempts to connect with certain entities suggest an interest in political, military, diplomatic
and technical intelligence. With the exception of personas that appear to be solely used to support the
bonafides of others, the majority of personas purport to be journalists, members of the military or
defense contractors.

Several accounts intimated the targeting interest of the actors by creating profiles tailored to

targeted organizations. In passages in several profiles, the actors defined a relationship between
the company for which they claimed to work and the profile's reader, whom they referred to in
the first person and whose company they identified. These profiles intimated an interest in US and
Israeli defense contractors working in aerospace.
© 2014 All rights reserved. iSIGHT Partners ®, Inc. 5
LinkedIn profiles indicated, in first person, which companies were specifically targeted

Social networking accounts were found with extensive relationships to several current and former

flag officers of the US military and senior government officials. The deliberate nature of their
targeting was indicated by a long-term process of "friending"(or connecting their profiles to)
people with whom the target is familiar or intimately related, building bona fides prior to
ultimately friending the targeted person.

Entities connected to the network included, but were not limited to:

o Several current and former senior members of the military
o Current and former senior foreign policy leaders, to includes those associated with
nuclear non-proliferation and sanctions
o Politicians and bureaucrats at the state and federal level with a particular concentration
around the state of North Carolina
o The US-Israel lobby
o Personnel from at least ten separate US and Israeli defense contractors
o Several other accounts that have no apparent connection to geopolitics or organizations
typically targeted in espionage activity

Of note, a persona using the name Kendrick Babson is inconsistent with the aforementioned

targeting motivation demonstrated by the choice of associated occupation. While others leverage
military, DIB or journalist profiles, Kendrick Babson is purportedly an accountant working for a
payment processor.