RECONNAISSANCE TOOL
One of the Snake components that could have been downloaded from a remote C&C server, was identified as a network
reconnaissance tool.
When run as a command line tool, with its logic defined with the command line switches, this tool enumerates other network hosts
and detects what Windows RPC services are enabled at the endpoints. It carries a list of interface identifiers associated with
the named pipes. It then uses these identifiers to write a message to and read a message from the associated named pipes. By
knowing what RPC services are running, it can successfully fingerprint all network hosts by mimicking the Metasploit’s logic of OS
fingerprinting via SMB. The fingerprinting allows it to reveal the following characteristics for each host found in the network:


the version of the operating system


version of the service pack


the installed network services


The data it retrieves is encrypted and saved into a configuration file %system%\vtmon.bin. This file is then further encrypted with
an NTL-based (Number Theory Library) algorithm and is uploaded by the usermode-centric Snake rootkit to the C&C server, along
with other configuration files, such as mtmon.sdb, mtmon32.sdb, gstatsnd.bin, gstat.bin, gstat32.bin, and other log
files found in the %windows%\$NtUninstallQ[random]$ directory.
By using this function the remote attacker can identify any potentially exploitable hosts located in the same network as the victim.
The attacker may then craft an exploit against those hosts, possibly by using the Metasploit framework, and then deliver the
generated shellcode back to the reconnaissance tool to be applied against the identified hosts by running the tool with the
‘exp_os’ switch.
If the tool successfully delivers the payload and exploits the remote host(s), it will replicate the infection across the network, taking
control over new hosts, thus repeating the infection cycle all over again and spreading the infection further. Unlike traditional worm
techniques, this process is rather manual, but its danger is in the fact that the attacker can flexibly craft new attack methods,
adjusting them to the hosts present within the network, thus preying on the weakest (least updated, most vulnerable) victims along
its path.
BAE Systems Applied Intelligence: Snake Rootkit Report 2014 25