Ransoms rise as attacks increase
It’s hard to believe that just two years ago, Sophos analysts marveled at the $6 million haul brought in
by the operators of the ransomware known as SamSam. In an attack Sophos responded to in 2020, the
ransomware operators opened their negotiations at a dollar amount of more than twice what the SamSam
gang earned in 32 months of operation.
Ransomware comes in weight classes, now: heavyweights that attack large enterprise networks,
welterweights that target civil society (public safety and local government) and small-to-medium
businesses, and featherweights that target individual computers and home users. While earning the
dubious distinction of being the heaviest heavyweight sounds impressive, it isn’t fair to compare high
ransom demands to those that originate from the lower end of the ransomware spectrum.
Sophos has a dedicated team that investigates, and often works with the targets of, ransomware attacks.
The team can forensically reconstruct the events of an attack after the fact, and sometimes disrupt attacks
while they’re still in progress. The Sophos Rapid Response team gets involved in cases when there’s a
chance to stop or limit the harm, but sometimes the attack happens so fast, there’s nothing it can do, and
the target must then decide whether or not to pay the ransom, at which point, Sophos is no longer involved.
November 2020 7
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
That’s where companies like Coveware come in. The company represents ransomware targets, as a
high-stakes negotiator with their attackers. Coveware’s CTO Alex Holdtman confirmed our suspicion, that
ransomware heavyweights are the primary driving factor in the demand for sky-high ransoms.
Average ransom payouts, quarterly
Q4 2019
Q1 2020
Q2 2020
Q3 2020
$84,116.00
$111,605.17
$178,254.19
$233,817.30
Fig.2. The average ransom demand has risen 21% in the past quarter and has nearly tripled over the past year. Source: Coveware.
In just the past quarter, the average ransom payout has risen by 21%, but Coveware believes the averages
can be skewed by just one or two very large ransom attacks. The average ransom payout in the justcompleted quarter is now the equivalent of $233,817.30, payable in cryptocurrency. A year ago, the average
payout was $84,116.
Ransomware threat actors understand how expensive downtime can be, and have been testing the upper
limit of what they can extract in a ransom attack.
Several ransomware families have taken up extortion as a side-hustle to help close the deal. As mentioned
earlier in our report, groups such as Netwalker and others are using this tactic. That way, even if the target
of the attack has perfectly recoverable backups of their data, they may still be forced to pay in the hopes the
ransomware criminals don’t publish their internal information to the world.
At the lower end of the ransomware spectrum, demands have been increasing, but Holdtman says they’re
nowhere near the big fish. There are a lot of small businesses and individuals that get hit, but for them the
ransom demands have remained relatively flat.
November 2020 8
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT