2.2 Social engineering
The intrusion set continues to rely on social engineering to run its malicious payloads on the machines of its email
recipients, using several formats for attachments to work around its targets’ security systems: .url [14], .iqy [9],
SettingContent-ms [15], MS publisher files [16], .wiz and .pub [17], .iso [18]. The aim of these documents was often
to run msiexec [9] commands via macros on the victim’s machine to upload and run a malware.
However, in the second half of 2019 and first half of 2020, TA505 seems to have modified and stabilised its social
engineering scheme. It now sends an HTML page as an attachment containing malicious Javascript code. This code
redirects the victim towards an URL of a legitimate but compromised website.
This same URL corresponds to an HTML page containing a minimal Javascript code redirecting the victim towards
a page hosted by a machine controlled by the intrusion set. This page mimicks that of a legitimate file-sharing site
adapted to the target such as Onedrive, Dropbox [19] or Naver [10] (during one of its campaigns in South Korea) [20].
The victim is then encouraged to download, open and enable VBA macros of an Office document, usually Excel,
containing a malicious payload .
9 Tool used to interact in command line with the installation, updating and de-installation engine of software specific to Microsoft operating
systems
10 Korean internet portal service.
20/08/2020 Page 5 of 20
TLP:WHITE
TLP:WHITE
Development of the activity of the TA505 cybercriminal group
Fig. 2.1: Initial TA505 compromise method
The intrusion set gradually increases the complexity of its social engineering method. In October 2019, it is thought
to have directly sent links towards phishing pages in its malicious emails. It then used URL shorteners to mask these
malicious links.
In late February 2020, it abandoned the URL shortener strategy and started to use HTML attachments with Javascript
with redirection from a compromised site, which made it even more difficult to detect its emails. Furthermore, some
of its redirection pages integrate a link towards iplogger.org, a service allowing the intrusion set to inspect IP addresses visiting these pages[21].
Finally, it has already been observed that the phishing pages of the intrusion set distributed empty Office documents
when a person other than the victim visited them. This behaviour can be explained by the fact that the intrusion
set filters the IP addresses to which it chooses to distribute its malicious documents or only distributes them within
limited time slots.