The Attack Phases
ATT&CK considers tactics to be the different stages of
an attack that a threat actor works through to achieve
his strategic goal. In this context, we also speak of
tactical goals. ATT&CK defines the following tactics:
Initial Access
Persistence
Privilege
Escalation
Discovery
Lateral
Movement
Collection
Exfiltration
The initial access phase is the starting point for all the subsequent phases of an attack. It includes
the initial contact with the attack target and compromising the so-called “patient zero.”
Persistence points within the target network ensure ongoing access to the compromised network. The more important the target is to the adversary, the more effort is put into persistence
points for long-time access to the network.
The escalation of privileges is often needed to install malware or persistence points. Increased
privileges are sometimes also required to be able to spread to other systems or gain access to the
strategic goals (e.g. data).
Exploration within the target network is required to locate systems, users and data relevant
to the mission.
This refers to moving across a network to the relevant data for the mission. This is often
accompanied by the execution phase and the installation of further persistence points.
The relevant data is collected.
This is the final phase required to successfully complete the mission and involves
exfiltrating the relevant data.
The following phases run in parallel to these phases,
depending on the successful achievement of the
objectives of the respective phases:
Execution
Defense Evasion
Credential Access
Command &
Control
The execution of malicious code on a local or remote system primarily takes place in the initial
access and lateral movement phases. The next phase cannot be reached without execution
of code controlled by the attacker. Execution is thus one of the most important prerequisites for
the further development of the attack and for spreading across the target network.
Bypassing defense and detection mechanisms, e.g. by turning off the firewall at the endpoint or
deleting log data, is one of the tactical goals that threat actors use in every other phase of their
mission to either conceal their presence or bypass detection mechanisms.
Valid credentials play a key role for attackers. Firstly, it enables access to systems with legitimate
credentials and lateral movement within the target network. Secondly, it grants access to the
data that the attackers want. Furthermore, reusing credentials enables attackers to conduct an
attack using few resources because no exploits have to be written, acquired or employed in any
other way.
The command & control channel is the attacker’s means of communication to keep the
compromised target infrastructure under his control. If the attacker loses this channel, the attack
is literally stopped. As such attackers often establish multiple command & control channels to
ensure access.
The following illustration shows the connections:
Initial Privilege Lateral Mission
Access Persistence Escalation Discovery Movement Collection Exfiltration complete
Defense
Execution
Evasion
Credential
Access
Command
& Control