Earlier Campaigns
https://www.intezer.com/blog/research/russian-apt-uses-covid-19-lures-to-deliver-zebrocy/ 6/10
2/10/22, 10:58 PM Russian APT Uses COVID-19 Lures to Deliver Zebrocy - Intezer
Using the icon resource from the original phishing lure, we found another phishing lure
(395e166af5197967503f45c3ac134ff7) that was uploaded to VirusTotal from Kazakhstan
on November 12. This VHD file was named No.243.CB3-EVACUATION
LETTER.vhd . The content of the file is shown in Figure 7.
Figure 7: Content of No.243.CB3-EVACUATION LETTER.vhd. The disk file includes an
executable file and a PDF file.
The executable is another Go version of Zebrocy. It uses the same C&C URL. The sample
is obfuscated using the same technique the group has used for their prior versions. The
function names have been mangled and the strings have been obfuscated. In this
version, the strings are obfuscated by rotating the characters in the string one step. For
example, A has been rotated to B .
The PDF file is corrupted. This is not the first time the group is usingcorrupt files as part
of its lures. CorruptMicrosoft Excel files were used in the campaign uncovered by
QuoIntelligence earlier this year. The technique is likely used to trick the user into
executing the application rather than just viewing the lure.
Based on the file name, one theory we have is a message from India’s Directorate
General of Civil Aviation is being impersonated. It was announced in August that a flight
network between India, Russia, and other Central Asian countries was being developed.
While India has suspended international flights due to the pandemic, some airlines have
operated charter flights to “Russia, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.”
It turns out the same VHD file was uploaded in October to VirusTotal with different
content (855005fee45e71c36a466527c7fad62f); both samples share the same disk ID.
The content of this sample is shown in Figure 8. As with the other VHD files, this also
https://www.intezer.com/blog/research/russian-apt-uses-covid-19-lures-to-deliver-zebrocy/ 7/10
2/10/22, 10:58 PM Russian APT Uses COVID-19 Lures to Deliver Zebrocy - Intezer
has a PDF file and an executable masquerading as a Microsoft Word Document. Instead
of delivering the Go version of Zebrocy, the Delphi loader was used.
Figure 8: Content of VHD uploaded to VirusTotal in October.
The PDF lure is written in Russian. The title is, according to Google Translate:
“NATIONAL LIST INDIVIDUALS AND LEGAL ENTITIES INVOLVED IN TERRORIST
AND EXTREMIST ACTIVITIES OR THE DISTRIBUTION OF WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION.” The content of the first page is shown in Figure 9.
https://www.intezer.com/blog/research/russian-apt-uses-covid-19-lures-to-deliver-zebrocy/ 8/10
2/10/22, 10:58 PM Russian APT Uses COVID-19 Lures to Deliver Zebrocy - Intezer
Figure 9: Redacted screenshot of PDF lure written in Russian.
According to timestamps, the VHD was created on October 21, the day after the domain
(support-cloud[.]life) was registered. The domain was used in a spear-phishing attack
against a Kazakhstan government ministry the same day. The VHD file was uploaded to
VirusTotal the next day. On November 11, the same VHD file was reused but the lure and
payload were changed. This version of the VHD was uploaded to VirusTotal the next day.
By applying this logic to the VHD file used to deliver the Sinopharm-based lure, we can
estimate that it was used around November 20.