Recommendations
https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/an-analysis-of-lightbasin-telecommunications-attacks/ 5/13
10/21/2021 A Roaming Threat to Telecommunications Companies | CrowdStrike
It is not surprising that servers would need to communicate with one another as
part of roaming agreements between telecommunications companies; however,
LightBasin’s ability to pivot between multiple telecommunications companies stems
from permitting all traffic between these organizations without identifying the
protocols that are actually required. As such, the key recommendation here is for
any telecommunications company to ensure that firewalls responsible for the GPRS
network have rules in place to restrict network traffic to only those protocols that
are expected, such as DNS or GTP.
If already the victim of a LightBasin intrusion, simply restricting network traffic will
not solve the problem as LightBasin has displayed the ability to utilize common
telecommunications protocols such as GTP for command and control. In this event,
CrowdStrike recommends an incident response investigation t hat includes the
review of all partner systems alongside all systems managed by the organization
itself. Similarly, if an organization wishes to determine whether they’ve fallen
victim to LightBasin, any compromise assessment must also include a review of all
of the aforementioned systems.
Further, as it is a common situation where parts of the network may in fact be
managed by a third-party managed service provider as opposed to the
telecommunications company itself, an evaluation of security controls in place with
the partner should be undertaken to ensure that the systems are sufficiently
protected. CrowdStrike Services investigations commonly reveal a lack of any
monitoring or security tooling on telecommunications core network systems. While
the deployment of security tooling to real-time operating systems is generally
limited, other Unix-based operating systems that support the core
telecommunications network services are typically targeted by LightBasin and
should have some basic security controls and logging in place (e.g., SSH logging
forwarded to a SIEM, endpoint detection and response (EDR) for process execution,
file integrity monitoring (FIM) for recording file changes of key configuration files).
It is also important to ensure that appropriate incident response plans are in place
that take into account situations involving partner-managed systems within the
network in the event that such an incident is identified. This incident response plan
should contain the roles and responsibilities of third-party managed service
providers to ensure acquisition of forensic artifacts from third-party equipment not
directly under the management of the telecommunication operator themselves.
Finally, given that companies within the telecommunications vertical are
extensively targeted by highly advanced state-sponsored adversaries on a constant
basis, these organizations need to have access to up-to-date and comprehensive
threat intelligence resources so they can understand the threats facing the
industry. This intelligence should also provide insights into the TTPs of adversaries
that telecommunications companies are likely to encounter, across both the
corporate network and critical telecommunications infrastructure, so that these
insights can then be used to further augment detection mechanisms and inform on
decisions regarding existing security controls.