Use of Code-Signing Certificates
APT41 regularly leverages code-signing certificates to
sign malware when targeting both gaming and nongaming organizations. Notably, most of the digital
certificates being used in this manner are valid unrevoked
digital certificates stolen from East Asia-based game
development studios. APT41 likely signs their malware
to ensure compatibility with the targeted systems and to
potentially avoid detection.

Microsoft requires all kernel-mode drivers to be signed

in order to run on operating systems running Windows
Vista or later.

The use of code-signing certificates can also

significantly decrease the likelihood that a malicious
payload is detected.
Although we do not have direct evidence of APT41
specifically targeting and stealing code-signing certificates,
we have some indication from targeting of affected
organizations within the same time frame that digital
certificates are first compromised and used to sign malware.

Stealing private keys or compromising an organization's

infrastructure to access and steal digital certificates
abuses trust relationships between firms and certificate
authorities. Malicious files signed with valid digital
certificates can circumvent automated scanning/
blocking solutions and bypass Windows group policies
which restrict unsigned code from running.
–
Even when detected, malicious files signed by
a digital certificate from a trusted partner or
associated business are less likely to draw suspicion.
According to an advertisement in an underground
marketplace, the success rate of installing a payload
increases by as much as 50 percent when signing
files with valid digital certificates.
–
In most cases, multiple digital certificates are issued to
an organization using the same public name, making
it more difficult to identify a compromised certificate
among others with identical names.
–
Certificate authorities are responsible for revoking
compromised digital certificates, although response
times can vary greatly, and digital certificates can
continue to be abused even long after they are first
identified being misused.

Several malware samples were signed very close to the

certificate issue date, suggesting that APT41 or a related
actor had access to the private key or build environment
at that time. It is also possible the group acquired the
private keys soon after they were issued.

In some cases, digital certificates were used to sign

malware samples just before they expired, most likely
indicating the actors were actively managing a library of
digital certificates for this purpose.

Figure 18 depicts compile times of malware signed with

compromised digital certificates within the time frame
that the certificates were valid. All of the certificates
listed in the graphic have either been revoked or are
currently expired. Indicators associated with these
certificates are listed in "Technical Annex: Code Signing
Certificates Used by APT41."

Alternatively, it is possible APT41 may have purchased

the digital certificates used for signing malware within
an underground market. FireEye researchers found that
code signing certificates are currently available for sale
in underground marketplaces for as little as $399 USD,
although ones that go through rigorous vetting can be
sold for $1,699 USD.
40 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION
Figure 18: First observed malware
samples signed with digital certificates
(white) in relation to valid certificate
dates (blue).
Observed Use Of Code Signing Certificates
Electronics Extreme Limited
Zepetto Co.
En Masse Entertainment
GameUS Inc.
Shanda Games
NetSarang Computer
Wemade Entertainment Co.
XL Games Co.
Nanjing Ranyi Technology Co.
Guangzhou YuanLuo Technology Co.
Fuqing Dawu Technolofy Co.
Mgame Corp
xlgames
Neowix Corporation
Webzen Inc.
Guangzhou YuanLuo Technology Co.
YNK JAPAN Inc.
11/27/09 4/11/11 8/23/12 1/5/14 5/20/15 10/1/16 2/13/18 6/28/19
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 41