Gaining initial access
The attack vector for Butterfly’s campaigns in late 2012 and early 2013 was well documented. The group
conducted a watering-hole attack that compromised a popular mobile phone developer website, iPhoneDevSDK.
com, to deliver a Java zero-day exploit. However, little information is known about how the Butterfly attackers
have continued to gain access to victims’ systems, except for a few cases.
In one of the most serious cases, on June 25, 2014, Internet Explorer 10 created a file called bda9.tmp
on a victim’s computer. It is likely that bda9.tmp was created as a result of an exploit targeting Internet
Explorer. Bda9.tmp was then executed and went on to create a variant of Backdoor.Jiripbot with the file name
LiveUpdate.exe.
The affected version of Internet Explorer was a fully up-to-date, patched version of the browser, so the exploit
was very likely either a zero-day for Internet Explorer 10 or for a plugin used in Internet Explorer.
Microsoft patched a number of Internet Explorer 10 remote code execution vulnerabilities in subsequent Patch
Page 10
Butterfly: Corporate spies out for financial gain
Tuesday releases. It is possible that one of these patches covered the exploit, as there is no additional evidence
of an Internet Explorer 10 exploit in use. It was not possible to identify the website hosting the exploit or to
retrieve a copy of the exploit.
In late 2014, Java was used to create a file called updt.dat on a system belonging to another targeted
organization. The updt.dat file was located in a JBossweb folder, which is a sub-folder of Apache Tomcat. Based
on this activity, it seems likely that the JBoss server was compromised to deploy the malware. The breach may
have been a result of an SQL injection attack. This is based on evidence from an analyzed C&C server, where we
discovered that the Butterfly attackers use the SQLMap tool against their targets.
Once Butterfly gains a foothold in the victim’s network, they begin to carefully spread through it, until they
locate a system of interest.