A previously unknown group called Strider has been conducting cyberespionage-style
attacks against selected targets in Russia, China, Sweden, and Belgium. The group uses an
advanced piece of malware known as Remsec (Backdoor.Remsec) to conduct its attacks.
Remsec is a stealthy tool that appears to be primarily designed for spying purposes. Its
code contains a reference to Sauron, the all-seeing antagonist in Lord of the Rings.
Strider’s attacks have tentative links with a previously uncovered group, Flamer. The use of
Lua modules, which we’ll discuss later, is a technique that has previously been used by
Flamer. One of Strider’s targets had also previously been infected by Regin.
Background
Strider has been active since at least October 2011. The group has maintained a low profile
until now and its targets have been mainly organizations and individuals that would be of
interest to a nation state’s intelligence services. Symantec obtained a sample of the group’s
Remsec malware from a customer who submitted it following its detection by our behavioral
engine.
Remsec is primarily designed to spy on targets. It opens a back door on an infected
computer, can log keystrokes, and steal files.
Targets
Strider has been highly selective in its choice of targets and, to date, Symantec has found
evidence of infections in 36 computers across seven separate organizations. The group’s
targets include a number of organizations and individuals located in Russia, an airline in
China, an organization in Sweden, and an embassy in Belgium.
Figure 1. Only a small number of organizations in four countries are impacted by Strider
Stealthy back door
The Remsec malware used by Strider has a modular design. Its modules work together as
a framework that provides the attackers with complete control over an infected computer,
allowing them to move across a network, exfiltrate data, and deploy custom modules as
required.
Remsec contains a number of stealth features that help it to avoid detection. Several of its
components are in the form of executable blobs (Binary Large Objects), which are more
difficult for traditional antivirus software to detect. In addition to this, much of the malware’s
functionality is deployed over the network, meaning it resides only in a computer’s memory
and is never stored on disk. This also makes the malware more difficult to detect and
indicates that the Strider group are technically competent attackers.