DNS Hijacking
DNS hijacking is a particularly dangerous attack used by a limited set of advanced attackers. The aim
of DNS hijacking may include getting access to the corporate VPN network or corporate emails of
governments and companies. This is particularly relevant for the oil industry, as we have seen a number of
oil companies being targeted by advanced attackers who probably have certain geopolitical goals in mind.
In DNS hijacking, the DNS settings of a domain name are modified by an unauthorized third party. The
third party can, for instance, add an additional entry to the zone file of a domain or alter the resolution of
one or more of the existing hostnames. The simplest things the attacker can do are committing vandalism
(defacement), leaving a message on the hijacked website, and making the website unavailable. This will
usually be noticed quickly and the result may just be reputational damage. However, there are more
dangerous attacks possible, with a much bigger impact: theft of corporate credentials, interception of
emails, VPN access to the corporate network, and launching a watering hole attack. Ultimately, these
may even lead to lasting access to the victim’s network by an unauthorized third party. An actor can, for
example, use the (short) time window of the DNS hijack to send internal malware-ridden emails using
credentials intercepted during the hijack.
9 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
DNS hijacking attacks can happen by targeting registrants of a domain name. But many registrars and
DNS providers have two-factor authentication in place for their customers. Two-factor authentication
raises the bar significantly for a successful attack. More dangerous actors may use different tactics that
the domain owner cannot easily repel.
One possible scheme involves an actor not attacking the registrant of a domain directly, but instead the
registrar of the domain or even registries. More specifically, the actor can try to compromise the registrar’s
credentials for the management system that is used to push changes on domains to registries and DNS
root servers. Once the registrar is compromised, the actor can push specific changes for the domains
that are under control of the registrar. For example, the actor can change the legitimate authoritative
nameservers to other nameservers under the actor’s control. Once that has succeeded, the actor can
point domains to a foreign IP he controls.
We have seen these attacks targeting mail servers of government agencies in particular, and there
are serious possible compromise scenarios. When the attacker is also able to create a valid, new SSL
certificate of the hijacked domain, the attacker can even intercept SSL connections to the corporate
servers and potentially intercept corporate credentials that are sent to a hijacked version of the IMAP
server. To create an SSL certificate of a domain the attacker doesn’t own, the attacker usually has to show
ownership of the domain. When the attacker is able to intercept emails to the domain owner, the attacker
may be able to fool a certificate authority and pose as the legitimate owner of a domain. With that, a valid
SSL certificate may be issued.
There are ways to raise the bar for DNS hijack attacks. First of all, the use of multi-factor authentication will
make attacks more difficult, though not impossible. As explained in a talk by Bill Woodcock, the executive
director of Packet Clearing House, [15] using Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) validation
for all email clients also helps. In the event that the IMAP server domain gets hijacked, the email clients
won’t make a connection to the foreign IP address as the DNSSEC validation fails. In his talk, Woodcock
says the use of mobile device management (MDM) is advised as well, to force mobile users who are not
in the office to use the right recursive DNS servers that implement DNSSEC validation.
While most DNS hijacking attacks [16] have happened against government organizations, some oil companies
have been affected too. Most likely, these oil companies fell victim to politically motivated attacks such as
the incidents that happened in 2018 and 2019 in the Middle East. These attacks might have resulted in
interception of emails, interception of corporate credentials, temporary access to the corporate VPN, and
even semi-persistent access to the corporate network.
The risk of DNS hijacking can be further reduced by a couple of additional measures. First, a script can
check the DNS records of the critical domains and hostnames of an organization frequently — every
minute or as often as may be desired. By walking down the whole DNS hierarchy for crucial domain
10 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
names starting from the root servers, the script can quickly notice any unauthorized changes in the chain.
If this monitoring is done frequently enough, the potential damage can be limited significantly.
Once an organization has become a victim of a DNS hijack attack and the DNS settings have been restored to
normal, it is important to note that crucial information might have been stolen, such as corporate credentials.
Obviously, passwords should be reset. Also if, for example, the webmail or mail domain was hijacked, that
might have just been a way for the attacker to get into systems and get persistent access to the network with
malware or gain unauthorized VPN access. In that case, a full security sweep of the corporate network will
be necessary.
DNS hijack attacks can also be used to plant an exploit on a hijacked website with an audience the
attacker is interested in. For example, we saw that during an attack in 2019 the personal blog of a prolific
member of an American think tank was hijacked. While we were unable to reproduce what happened
exactly on the hijacked domain, an obvious case scenario would be a watering hole attack. This watering
hole could then infect the readers of the blog during the DNS hijack.