Social engineering
2%
5%
in attacks in attacks
on organizations on individuals
23% 27%
7%
7% 11% 21%
Figure 9. Types of malware
In late August, Emotet (one of the largest botnets in the world) resumed activity after a lull of several
months. The botnet's operators offer malware as a service (MaaS): by providing access to Emotet
infected computers, they enable other cybercriminals to infect victims with additional malware. Since
September, they have been sending out malicious mailings disguised as invoices, financial documents,
and even a free version of the new book by Edward Snowden. The attachments to these messages
infect the victim with the Emotet trojan. With it, the botnet operators can place yet more malware on
compromised devices, such as the Trickbot trojan or Ryuk ransomware, which are frequently found
together on infected machines.
1% 81%
5% 2% 35%
© Positive Technologies
Email
Compromised servers
and workstations
Websites
Official app stores
Chat and SMS
messages
Fake updates
Social networks
For attackers, social engineering is a perennial favorite. This method figured in 69 percent of attacks
on organizations in the third quarter, compared to 37 percent in the second quarter. Cybercriminals
continue to rack up huge amounts by forging messages or employing business email compromise
(BEC) to send phishing messages. They present themselves as belonging to a trusted company (such
as a vendor) and send an invoice with their own bank account number. In the state of North Carolina,
Cabarrus County received an email stating that the account number of the county's construction con-
tractor had changed. Not realizing that the message was a fake, the county transferred $2.5 million to
9
an account belonging to cybercriminals instead of the contractor. A similar attack hit Toyota Boshoku
Corporation, which lost a whopping $37.5 million. According to the U.S.-based Internet Crime
Complaint Center (IC3), worldwide losses from BEC fraud in the last three years top $26 billion.
A malicious link, even if sent from a trusted address, can be blocked by email security gateways. But
cybercriminals keep finding ways to evade anti-phishing systems. In Q3, attackers sent messages to
bank employees with a link to a compromised SharePoint site. There the attackers had posted a doc
ument with another link, which led victims to a fake page asking for their username and password. If
the phishing link had been included directly in the email message, anti-phishing systems might have
blocked it. But SharePoint links had been whitelisted and therefore were not blocked.
© Positive Technologies
Figure 11. Phishing attack involving compromised SharePoint resources