Conclusions
Thank you very much for taking the time to read this report. We highly appreciate your commitment to
protecting your organization and analyzing data related to cybersecurity.
What conclusions can be drawn after reading the report?
The “Asian threat” is especially dangerous for government agencies and the militaryindustrial complex
The campaigns of Asian groups are directed against organizations from many industries and are not limited
to one region. As victimology research shows, they are especially active in relation to government and military
structures. Asian APT groups typically steal data and engage in espionage without resorting to extortion,
encryption or disruption of business processes. This may indicate the attackers' primary intent is to obtain
information that can be used for political manipulation or intelligence purposes.
Asian APT groups have their own signature
The section “Analysis of the actions of attackers based on the “Unified Kill Chain”” describes patterns
characteristic of the work of groups from Asia. Defenders should pay attention to them: they can help not only
identify attackers, but also notice a developing attack at an early stage.
Asian APT attacks can be stopped
It is widely believed that Asian APT attacks are so sophisticated and sophisticated that the likelihood of them
being detected and stopped in time is close to zero. However, most attacks carried out by Asian APTs consist
of simple steps and involve the use of well-known utilities. The success of these attacks is explained by the
weak level of development of information security processes in the victim organizations.
An effective security strategy includes properly organized processes in the SOC,
security tools and special security mechanisms
The report can be used as a guide to building defenses against Asian APT attacks. It includes potential
protection mechanisms, including SIGMA rules that are ready to be implemented in the infrastructure, and
security rules that will help reduce the impact of the described incidents. The most effective protection
involves the use of these mechanisms along with modern security solutions - such as EPP/EDR/Sandbox - and
properly organized work of the SOC in accordance with the practices of Hardening & Security, Vulnerability
Management and Asset Management."
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Appendix I — Sigma Rules Contents 314