Timeline of activity
The VOHO watering-hole distributed remote access Trojans in two phases. In phase one of the attack, an Internet
Explorer zero-day vulnerability, the Microsoft XML Core Services CVE-2012-1889 Remote Code Execution
Vulnerability (CVE-2012-1889), was leveraged. On July 10, Microsoft introduced the patch for CVE-2012-1889
and activity at the watering-hole ceased. This appears to have been a clever decision on behalf of the attackers.
If they continued to deliver the exploit, they risked detection and would have hurt their chances of retaining
access to the watering-hole for phase two of the campaign. Within six days, phase two of the distribution began,
this time using a malicious Java applet exploiting the Oracle Java SE CVE-2012-1723 Remote Code Execution
Vulnerability (CVE-2012-1723). This Java exploit was patched at the time. Having already used two zero-day
exploits in quick succession (the first zero-day exploit was used in the GOTHAM campaign in May 2012, see
appendix for more details), the Hidden Lynx group may not have had another one at their disposal.
The timeline of activity at the watering-hole is shown in Figure 6.
In each phase of the attack, two Trojans were being distributed at different intervals. The customized version
of “Gh0st RAT”, Backdoor.Moudoor, saw large-scale distribution in comparison to Trojan.Naid, which was used
more selectively in these attacks.
Before being used in the second phase of the attack, Trojan.Naid was signed with the Bit9 certificate. Moudoor
was never observed during the attack on Bit9, which could indicate that two separate teams are at work
here. With Moudoor and Naid using different command-and-control (C&C) servers, each team could work
independently on alternative objectives. The discovery of the Naid C&C would also be less likely in comparison
to Moudoor’s, as its large-scale distribution would inevitably create more noise as it continued to impact many
organizations.
Figure 7. The VOHO campaign – Trojans distributed and C&C servers used to command and control
Page 11
Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire