A Deep Dive into Zebrocy’s Dropper Docs
labs.sentinelone.com /a-deep-dive-into-zebrocys-dropper-docs
Marco Figueroa April 19, 2021
Sofacy is an APT threat actor that’s been around since 2008 and rose to prominence with
the election hacks of 2016. Better known as FancyBear or APT28, this threat actor targets
governments, military, and private organizations and has been known to engage in hackand-leak operations. In the past couple of years, Sofacy has drastically retooled and
largely evaded analysts. One of the more consistent subgroups is known as Zebrocy. Their
targeting appears primarily focused on former Soviet Republics and, more recently, Asia.
In March 2021, we observed a cluster of activities targeting Kazakhstan with Delphocy –
malware written in Delphi and previously associated with Zebrocy. The Word documents
that were observed purport to be from a Kazakhy company named Kazchrome, a mining
and metal company and one of the world’s largest producers of chrome ore and
ferroalloys.
In total, we found six Delphocy Word documents that appear to be related to this cluster,
all of which contain the same VBA script that drops a PE. Out of the six Word documents,
two appear to be authentic uploads to VirusTotal by victims originating from Kazakhstan.
The uploaded files contain what appeared to be the original filenames Авансовый
отчет(новый).doc and Форма докладной (служебной) записки.doc.
In this post, we take a deep dive into these samples and share some techniques other
analysts can employ to reverse engineer Delphocy dropper docs. We show how
researchers can bypass password-protected macros and describe both how to decompile
Delphi using IDR (Interactive Delphi Reconstructor) and how to import the saved IDC file
into Ghidra using dhrake’s plugin.
1/11
The results of our analysis led us to discover further Zebrocy clusters; a list of IOCs and
YARA detection rules are provided to enable threat hunters to search for these and related
artifacts in their environments.