Proactive defense: The best defense is a great offense.
Threat hunting |
Behavioral analysis
Advanced threat actors attempt
to blend in to evade automated
cyberdefense measures. With the rise
of zero-day and fileless attacks, it’s
harder than ever to protect endpoints
with confidence. In addition, preventing
and detecting these attacks can be a
huge drain on organizational resources.
Compromise happens within minutes
to hours, as we have seen consistently
over the years in the DBIR. This is mainly
attributable to the use of email and
web-based threat vectors coupled with
heavily automated attacks (nowadays
also powered by machine learning).
Visibility and detection speed
techniques play a very important role
in this never-ending battle against
cyberattacks. It is imperative that
detection measures be a combination
of signature- and behavior-based
techniques. One cannot manage or
defend against unknown threats using
traditional means. Effective, efficient
and multilayered threat hunting can
help give you a significant advantage in
detecting these unknowns.
Threat hunting consists of:


Making hypothesis-driven exercises


Proactively and reactively searching


for threat actor activities

Effectively eliminating, or at least

reducing, false negatives (indicators
that signature-based detection
approaches can overlook)

Assuming that threat actors are

already present in the infrastructure

Placing a strong focus on indicators

of attack (IoAs) combined with IoCs

Prioritizing overall threat types and

looking for the most dangerous
ones first
Additional actions
Consider taking these additional
protective measures:

Assign all users separate, unique

accounts. Don’t use generic or
shared accounts or passwords

Block outbound, unrestricted internet

access from server infrastructure.
This is intended to prevent
adversaries from exfiltrating data to
known or unknown IP addresses and
using services, protocols or ports in
an unauthorized manner

Create adequate network

segmentation to separate virtual local
area networks (VLANs) from internetfacing infrastructure, server farms,
internal networks and administrator
networks. Appropriate segmentation
makes it difficult for an adversary to
move laterally within the network

Restrict PowerShell and other native

scripting to only individuals with an
acknowledged legitimate use and track
the assignment of such privileges

Prohibit interactive log-ons using

service accounts or “break-the-glass”
accounts. Implement a rule in the
SIEM to trigger an alert to the security
operations team whenever an attempt
is made to log on to any system
interactively using service accounts

Require two-factor authentication

for all administrative access to
infrastructure components. This
implementation will mitigate the
impersonation risk and prohibit access
using unauthorized credentials
25 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report
06