Recommendations
The following items have been mentioned in the 2012 Data Breach Investigations Report by Verizon, and we will re-
state them here as they still hold true:
For smaller organizations:
26
Trend Micro | Operation Black Atlas: How Modular Botnets are Used in Attacks


Implement a firewall or ACL on remote access services.


Change default credentials of POS systems and other internet-facing devices.


If a third party vendor is handling the two items above, make sure they’ve actually done them.


For large organizations:


Eliminate unnecessary data; keep tabs on what’s left.


Ensure essential controls are met; regularly check that they remain so.


Monitor and mine event logs.


Evaluate your threat landscape to prioritize your treatment strategy.


27
Trend Micro | Operation Black Atlas: How Modular Botnets are Used in Attacks
We would like to add that small organizations may want to look into consider implementing some items for large
organizations – essential controls on passwords and network/system security, as well as monitor and mine event
logs would be very beneficial any size of an organization. We’d like to also note that network segmentation and
isolation of the cardholder data environment from other networks, and should be a standard practice not only for big
retailers and stores.
Trend Micro is monitoring this ongoing activity, and would make follow-up reports on this if necessary. To read up on
how to enhance your security posture on your point-of-sale systems, please read Defending Against PoS RAM
Scrapers: Current Strategies and Next-Gen Technologies as well as our write-up on Protecting Point of Sales Systems
from PoS Malware. To detect, analyze, and respond to advanced malware and other attack techniques, the Custom
Defense™ by Trend Micro™ may prove invaluable to your organizations security needs.
28
Trend Micro Incorporated, a global leader in security software, strives to make the
world safe for exchanging digital information. Our innovative solutions for consumers,
businesses and governments provide layered content security to protect information
on mobile devices, endpoints, gateways, servers and the cloud. All of our solutions
are powered by cloud-based global threat intelligence, the Trend Micro™ Smart
Protection Network™, and are supported by over 1,200 threat experts around the
globe. For more information, visit www.trendmicro.com.
©2015 by Trend Micro, Incorporated. All rights reserved. Trend Micro and the Trend
Micro t-ball logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Trend Micro,
Incorporated. All other product or company names may be trademarks or registered
trademarks of their owners.
10101 N. De Anza Blvd.
Cupertino, CA 95014
U.S. toll free: 1 +800.228.5651
Phone: 1 +408.257.1500
Fax: 1 +408.257.2003