Introduction
World War Z —a bestselling book and Hollywood movie—detailed a global pandemic in which politics
and culture deeply influenced how the public—and by extension, governments—reacted to a zombie
plague. In one passage, for example, an Arab boy refused to believe that the disease was real,
suspecting that Israel had fabricated the story. The nations described in World War Z—the United States,
China, Russia, South Korea, Israel, and many others—are involved in a very different type of conflict,
but one with real and growing national security impact: World War C, where “C” stands for “Cyber”.
However, the same rule applies: each country has a unique political system, history, language, culture,
and understanding of human and international conflict.
Cyber conflict often mirrors traditional conflict. For example, China uses high-volume cyber attacks
similar to how it used infantry during the Korean War. Many Chinese soldiers were sent into battle with
only a handful of bullets. Given their strength in numbers, they were still able to achieve battlefield
victories. On the other end of the spectrum lie Russia, the U.S., and Israel, whose cyber tactics are more
surgical, reliant on advanced technologies and the cutting-edge work of contractors who are driven by
competition and financial incentives.
We are still at the dawn of the Internet Age. But cyber attacks have already proven themselves as
a low-cost, high-payoff way to defend national sovereignty and to project national power. Many of
today’s headlines seem to be pulled from the pages of a science fiction novel. Code so sophisticated it
destroys a nuclear centrifuge thousands of miles away. Malware that secretly records everything a user
does on a computer. A software program that steals data from any nearby device that has Bluetooth
connectivity. Encrypted code that decrypts only on one specific, target device. Such sophistication
speaks volumes about the maturity, size, and resources of the organizations behind these attacks. With
a few rare exceptions, these attacks are now in the exclusive realm of nation-states.
“The international community has developed a solid understanding of cyber technology,” said Prof.
Michael N. Schmitt of the U.S. Naval War College, in an email interview. “What is missing is a grasp of
the geopolitical context in which such technology operates. Attribution determinations made without
sensitivity to the geopolitical surroundings are seldom reasonable.”
World War C, like any analogy, has its limits. Cyber war has been compared to special operations
forces, submarine warfare, missiles, assassins, nuclear weapons, Pearl Harbor, 9/11, Katrina, and more.
Even our zombie analogy is not new. Often, any compromised computer, if it is actively under the
surreptitious control of a cybercriminal, is called a zombie, and botnets are sometimes called zombie
armies. Also, compared to stockpiling tanks and artillery, writing cyber attack code, and compromising
thousands if not millions of computers, is easy. Moreover, malware often spreads with the exponential
growth of an infectious disease.
This report examines many publicly known cyber attacks. By exploring some of the distinctive national
or regional characteristics of these attacks, organizations can better identify their attackers, anticipate
future attacks, and defend themselves.
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 3