61850 payload component
Unlike the 101 and 104 payloads, this payload component exists as a
standalone malicious tool comprising an executable named 61850.exe
and the DLL 61850.dll. It is named after the IEC 61850 standard. This
standard describes a protocol used for multivendor communication among
devices that perform protection, automation, metering, monitoring, and
control of electrical substation automation systems. The protocol is very
complex and robust, but the 61850 payload uses only a small subset of the
protocol to produce its disruptive effect.
Once executed, the 61850 payload DLL attempts to read the configuration
file, the path to which is supplied by the Launcher component. The
standalone version defaults to reading its configuration from i.ini. The
configuration file is expected to contain a list of IP addresses of devices
capable of communicating via the protocol described in the IEC 61850
standard.
If the configuration file is not present, then this component enumerates all
connected network adaptors to determine their TCP/IP subnet masks. The
61850 payload then enumerates all possible IP addresses for each of these
subnet masks, and tries to connect to port 102 on each of those addresses.
Therefore, this component has the ability to discover relevant devices in the
network automatically.
Otherwise, if a configuration file is present and it contains target IP
addresses, this component connects to port 102 on those IP addresses and
on IP addresses that were discovered automatically.
Once this component connects to a target host, it sends a Connection
Request packet using the Connection Oriented Transport Protocol, as seen
in Figure 12.
Figure 12. A Connection Request packet, after dissection by Wireshark.
If the target device responds appropriately, the 61850 payload then sends
an InitiateRequest packet using the Manufacturing Message Specification
(MMS). If the expected answer is received, it continues, sending an MMS
getNameList request. Thereby, the component compiles a list of object
names in a Virtual Manufacturing Device (VMD).
Next, this component enumerates the objects discovered in the previous
step and sends the device domain-specific getNameList requests with
each object name. This enumerates named variables in a specific domain.
Win32/Industroyer 11
Figure 13. The dissected MMS getNameList request in Wireshark.
Afterwards, the 61850 payload parses data received in response to these
requests, searching for variables that contain following combinations of
strings:


CSW, CF, Pos, and Model


CSW, ST, Pos, and stVal


CSW, CO, Pos, Oper, but not $T


CSW, CO, Pos, SBO, but not $T


The string CSW is a name for logical nodes, which are used to control
circuit breakers and switches.
For variables that contain the Model or stVal string the 61850 payload sends
an additional MMS Read request. For some of the variables this component
may also issue an MMS Write request that will change its state.
The 61850 payload produces a log file of its operations that contains the IP
addresses, MMS domains, named variables and the node states (open or
closed) of its targets.