Introduction
The following is a short report with the intention to inform the public about Indicators of Compromise
(IOCs) and Modus Operandi of the attacker group that is responsible for the RUAG cyber espionage
case, which has been made public on Wednesday, May 4th 2016.
One of the main tasks of MELANI is to support critical infrastructures during security incidents and the coordination of relevant actors involved. Regarding technical first response and support, GovCERT supported
RUAG with log analysis, forensics, malware reverse engineering and security monitoring. The report below
reflects our experiences during this case.
The Case
The cyber attack is related to a long running campaign of the threat actor around Epic/Turla/Tavdig . The
actor has not only infiltrated many governmental organizations in Europe, but also commercial companies
in the private sector in the past decade. RUAG has been affected by this threat since at least September
2014. The actor group used malware that does not encompass any root kit technologies (even though the
attackers have rootkits within their malware arsenal). An interesting part is the lateral movement, which
has been done with a lot of patience. The intention of the attackers is always to steal information from the
victim. In order to this, they infiltrate the network and then move laterally, until they are able to retrieve
the information of interest.
We would like to emphasize that public blaming is never appropriate after such attacks. These attacks may
happen to every organization regardless of their security level. What is much more important is to learn
from these attacks and to raise the bar for the next time the attacker tries to infiltrate the network.
The Chronology
The picture below shows the chronology of the attack against RUAG.
Figure 1: Timeline of Attack
INTRODUCTION 2 / 32
MELANI:GovCERT TLP WHITE
The Malware Family
There are many names used in the context of this malware family. The most generic one is Turla, which is
considered as the name for the whole family - some also call it Uroburos, though this is not strictly correct.
The following picture tries - in an extremely simplified manner - to summarize the involved trojan names:
Figure 2: Turla Family Tree
This overview is not complete, but most commonly known names should be present. The common ancestor
seems to be Agent.BTZ, which was first observed in 2007 and 2008 in the US. The roots of Agent.BTZ are
a bit vague, and also code relations to the rest of the family are not very obvious. For these reasons, the
relations are shown as dotted lines. Surprisingly, some more obvious links can be found between Agent.BTZ
and the much newer Snake rootkit - like a common XOR key used in both of them. The relation to Carbon
is weaker though. So, Agent.BTZ must be considered as a vague origin of the whole family. It is not really
known how old Agent.BTZ is, but we assume it’s actually older than 2007.
The Carbon rootkit was the first real member of the family, first observed in 2007. It initially came as a
32-bit kernel driver under Windows XP, and 2 years later as a 64-bit kernel driver.
After Microsoft enforced digital signatures for kernel drivers on their 64-bit operating systems, the Carbon
rootkit was replaced by a usermode only variant, purely using DLLs and hence named Carbon-DLL .
Carbon-DLL also added asymmetric encryption for C&C (Command and Control) traffic.
The famous Snake rootkit (also called Uroburos) seems to be a spin-off of the Carbon rootkit. It also is
a rootkit, using an exploit in a digitally signed VMWare driver, but it lacks the advanced cryptography of
Carbon-DLL. So it does not look like a direct successor.
Shown in green boxes are the corresponding recon tools (more details about these in the “Active Infection”
chapter later). Recon tools are a bit like poor-man’s-versions of their counterparts and are used as initial
infections to have a first look on freshly infected systems. As the attackers have only limited control on
which systems actually get successfully infected, it is useful for them to have a closer look before sending the
final infection malware (which we call stage 2 malware ).
The only well known member of these recon tools is Tavdig, also known as Wipbot or Epic . It has a
predecessor, which was never broadly published about; we call it regbackup, because this is the name
under which it was installed.
INTRODUCTION 3 / 32
MELANI:GovCERT TLP WHITE