Windows Base Camp
Windows has historically provided a free seaside beachfront vacation home for APT
groups associated with the WINNTI approach. That’s because their Windows RATs
have targeted both desktops and servers seamlessly in their operations for more
than a decade. But, as we have seen, some of these groups have also demonstrated
expertise in attacking Linux and other platforms. So how, then, might the same groups
go about managing an attack against both platforms simultaneously? As it turns out,
it’s not that hard.
While pivoting between Linux and Windows platforms may seem like a novel
phenomenon, several of these groups were documented doing just that way back in
2012 (Fraser, et al., 2019). More recently, one of the groups that that CrowdStrike tracks
as WICKED SPIDER has been observed targeting MacOS as well (Bradley, 2018).
In order to make moving between platforms easier, several of these APT groups have
employed the cross-platform tunneling tool EarthWorm to proxy traffic between different
operating systems (idlefire, 2016). EarthWorm was first released by “rootkiter” by a
security researcher at China’s Qihoo 360 Netlab in May of 2015 (Rootkiter, 2015).
Many of the previously exposed WINNTI Windows implants have continued to evolve,
and the APT groups behind them continue to deploy new malware alongside other wellknown families as well as other signed, open-source backdoors.
One common feature going back through the years shared by all the groups collectively
referred to as WINNTI has been the use of stolen code-signing certificates. Typically,
these code-signing certificates belonged to compromised video game developers. The
stolen certificates were subsequently used to sign malware deployed in attacks on other
higher priority targets, such as SK Telecom in 2011 (Command Five Pty Ltd, 2011).
However, BlackBerry researchers discovered what appears to be a novel and ongoing
trend: the threat actors have shifted from compromising video game companies to
compromising adware developers, and then utilizing their code-signing certificates in
operations.