Step 3: Threat Actor’s Arsenal
Perhaps one of the most interesting steps involved identifying and analyzing the tools the threat
actor used throughout the attack. The combination of the preference of tools, sequence of use,
and specifically how they are used during the attack says a lot about a threat actor, especially
when it comes to attribution.
One of the more notable aspects was how the threat actor used mostly known tools that were
customized for this specific attack. Each tool was customized differently, and included re-writing
the code, stripping debug symbols, string obfuscation, and embedding the victim’s specific
information within the tools’ configuration.
However, the threat actor also used tools we were not able to attribute to any known tool. These
tools were used in the later stages of the attack, once the operation was already discovered. This
was most likely to decrease the risk of exposure or attribution.
Finally, the payloads were almost never repeated. The threat actor made sure that each payload
had a unique hash, and some payloads were packed using different types of packers, both known
and custom.
The main tools these attacks had in common are:

Web Shells

A modified version of the China Chopper web shell was used for initial compromise.
Custom-built web shells were used for later phases of the attack.

Reconnaissance Tools

A modified version of Nbtscan was used to identify available NetBIOS name servers
locally or over the network.
Multiple Windows built-in tools were used for various tasks, including whoami,
net.exe, ipconfig, netstat, portqry, and more.
WMI and PowerShell commands were used for various tasks.

RAT

PoisonIvy was used to maintain access across the compromised assets.
PlugX was used in some of the instances that we're aware of.
4. Credential Dumpers
A modified version of Mimikatz was used to dump credentials stored on the
compromised machines.
A PowerShell-based Mimikatz was also used to dump credentials stored on the
compromised machines.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 5. Lateral movement 15/21
WMIwasusedforlateralmovement.
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
PsExec was also used for lateral movement.

Connection Proxy

A modified version of hTran was used to exfiltrate stolen data.
7. Compression tool
Winrar was used to compress and password-protect stolen data.