Social engineering
Oftentimes, attackers manipulate people’s emotions to deliver malware. Emails are one way to accomplish
this. In Q4 2019, 54 percent of attacks used social engineering combined with malware. Users need to
be especially careful with their inboxes during the holiday season. Holidays are when attackers send
phishing emails most actively. For instance, prior to Thanksgiving in the U.S., attackers sent out emails
with supposed greeting cards. The attachments actually delivered malware, such as Emotet, to the
victims' computers. Mass emails with fake party invitations containing Emotet were also sent out at
Halloween and Christmas.
Even if you do not click suspicious links and do not open suspicious attachments, do not think you are
immune. In Q4 2019, hackers took advantage of the workings of the Microsoft OAuth API to perform
phishing attacks. The OAuth protocol allows issuing an access token to third-party apps without needing
to know credentials. The attack went as follows. A phishing email contains a link to a file supposedly
on OneDrive or SharePoint. But after clicking the link and entering credentials, the user gets a form
requesting access to an Office 365 account. An inattentive victim can provide all requested rights with
a single click. And then attackers receive access to the user's contact list, files, and correspondence.
10
Extortion emails are not a new trick, but they still
pay off well. For instance, Check Point estimates
that operators of the Phorpiex botnet made about
$115,000 in five months by sending such emails. As
proof of compromise, attackers obtain their victims'
passwords from breached databases and include
the passwords in the message. Payment for non
disclosure of sensitive data is usually in bitcoins.
However, Cofense points out that attackers have
started requesting payment in alternate currencies,
such as litecoins (LTC). The reason is that messages
containing bitcoin wallet addresses are often blocked
by email security gateways precisely to prevent such
extortion attempts. Some cybercriminals having
taken to putting bitcoin wallet addresses in emails in
the form of QR codes.