WOOLGERED—HOISTED BY THEIR OWN PETARD
Using credentials hard-coded into the woolen key-logger, we were able to retrieve numerous woolger DAT files (key-logs),
as uploaded from victims around the world.
As apparent, the same hard-coded FTP credentials were, in fact, Administrator credentials on the C&C Windows server itself,
which had the C$ and D$ NetBIOS/SMB administrative shares openly accessible from the WAN.
Image 20—if you didn’t want to allow researchers to have administrator access to your C&C server

you shouldn’t have hard-coded administrator credentials into your malware.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  18
Among many logged keystroke files containing stolen data, we stumbled on an astonishing discovery: the Rocket Kitten attackers
had, in fact, infected their own workstations, apparently as ‘test-runs’ for woolger. The attackers failed to remove these files from
the C&C server, demonstrating, yet again, utter lack of OPSEC.
Of peculiar interest to us were logs made by none other than ‘Wool3n.H4t’ himself:
Image 21—The test worked.
Would you be surprised what followed in the same log file?
Image 22—The attacker testing his own tool.
Yes, we actually just witnessed Wool3n.H4T switching through his open windows, including a Microsoft Visual Studio live debugging
session of a project called… ‘CWoolger’
In another log, we observe the specific programming of loading of the ‘wsc.vbs’ script, as observed in the Trend Micro publication and
others. At this point, there should be no question—we are looking at the malware author’s development workstation.
Image 23—Mutexes and thread-safety should be the least of your worries.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  19
The next log shows us the attacker wanted to test whether his tool would accurately capture credentials entered into a Firefox HTTP
authentication prompt, and thus he entered his own C&C server…
Image 24
All of Wool3n.H4T’s retrieved logs were dated October 2014.
Then, we spotted this log segment:
Image 25 –‘AOL Mail’ already narrowed it
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  20
Recorded under the Wool3n.H4T name, a user logs into AOL mail with username ‘yaserbalaghi.’
Could it be the same ‘Yaser’ as noted in the recent Trend Micro and ClearSky paper? (‘D:\Yaser Logers\CWoolger’…) Could it explain
the Phakeddb reference to “ybsoft”? We don’t know at this point; we have to go deeper.
‘yaserbalaghi@aol.com’ appears to give a technical answer in a long C++ thread in an Iranian programmers forum (“Barname Nevis”)
in Iranian ‘Solar Hijri’ calendar year 1389 (2010-2011):
The same yaserbalaghi user made several posts, also linking to various programming instructional videos in the subjects of ASP.NET
and AJAX, jQuery and SQL injections as instructed by him using screen capture software.
Careful watching of the videos allowed us to learn a few interesting details. For starters, Yaser Balaghi is a Microsoft Visual Studio
2010 user, with familiarity of several tools observed to be used during the ‘Rocket Kitten’ campaign.
Image 26—Screenshot taken from instructional video by Yaser Balaghi (Engineer Balaghi)
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  21
Image 27—EngineerBalaghi host name
Further inspecting the user names and host names evident in the screen captures, we noticed we were actually in possession
of logged keystrokes from an "infected computer” where the user name was “Engineer Balaghi,” strengthening our suspicions.
However, we can’t be sure yet; Yaser Balaghi may be a common name or perhaps this is someone related to Wool3n.H4T or the
attackers.
A few minutes later, and we spotted this gem of an OPSEC mistake in the SQLi instructional video, which precisely provided the
smoking gun we were after:
Image 28—Watching an hour of Farsi SQL injection tutorial has its rewards
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  22
Wool3n.H4t is caught red-handed. One of his many mistakes, he was now caught giving a public tutorial while logged in under his
secret alias, otherwise unlinked with his real identity. These videos were recorded February 2014, prior to the first clear Rocket Kitten
attack wave mid-year.
A quick glance on W00l3n.Hat’s desktop reveals a striking match with web hacking attack tools previously described in Rocket
Kitten’s arsenal.
Image 29—Havij, Acunetix, Netsparker, SQLMap, wamp, and oh—is that IDA properly licensed?
A few online queries later, we are getting numerous results, cross-referenced to verify as the same Yaser Balaghi, now the main
suspect to hold the Wool3n.H4T identity.
Engineer Yaser Balaghi is not only an active member of various programming forums—he had a web site (www.eng-balaghi.com,
gone offline since August 2014, still available in the Wayback Machine). In the available archived version of the site he described
himself as a “programmer, analyst, consultant and lecturer,” and made himself available for hire.
Image 30—Yaser Balaghi’s stackoverflow account
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  23
If all that wasn’t enough, we also managed to retrieve an updated resume for Tehran-based Engineer Balaghi:
Image 31 – Yaser Balaghi’s Resume (2013)
Islamic Azad University Computer Software Graduate Balaghi lists his job experience, including “Technical Director and Team
Leader of Software Development Team (Private)” (highlighted in original), as well as “Head of Security and Hacking (legal and ethical)
(Private)”. Later, he goes as far as listing sample accomplishments and completed projects, including the development and system
design for a “Phishing Attacks System” ordered by “a cyber-organization”.
Image 32 (original and translation)—we kid you not.
We could go on, but the main lesson of this section can be: if you don’t want people to know you created malware for the government,
don’t list it in your CV.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  24