4.1. PE file external structure
All the studied items are PE-DLL files to be registered by regsvr32. In addition to exports called by regsvr32, each sample has different sets of
exports typical of legitimate DLL files. Cobalt attempted to mask COM-DLL-Dropper by using third-party exports. Figure 32 shows the most
popular exports used in the malware files (total of 249 unique exports).
Figure 32. Most popular COM-DLL dropper exports
These exports contain stubs that generally do not actually do anything. Judging by the names of the exports, the droppers were masked to
resemble media application libraries. In 2019, the malware was updated with the DllInstall export, which is also called by regsvr32, and the main
dropper code was moved to the export.
Before describing the malware code, we should touch on the PureBasic code. The information we provide here is the result of analyzing malware
samples. We did not study the compiler itself and therefore are forced to make certain assumptions. However, the described entities helped us in
our analysis, which is why we are sharing them here. All the names in screenshots were made up for the purposes of interpreting the malware code.
Our analysis requires two entities: strings and object arrays. PureBasic strings are stored in a special buffer. They are allocated and released
without using a system API. Figure 33 shows the process of string allocation. During program initialization, a separate heap is created for strings
by calling HeapCreate().
Figure 33. String workings
A common pattern for working with this entity is as follows:

Allocate a string to storage from a constant.
Operate on the string.
Update the global string which is usually allocated on the heap. After the update is completed, move back the node index. This operation is

somewhat similar to pop().
The string storage structures do not allow storing the size of the added string. Instead, before starting any operation with the string, the program
saves the previous index of the node and then passes it to the update operation. The difference between the indices is the string size.
We will not describe object arrays here in detail; suffice it to say that a special header before each array stores information about the size, type, and
number of elements. The header occupies 18h bytes. Therefore, the space allocated for the array of objects can be calculated as size of element ×
number of elements + 18h .
To get a clearer picture, refer to this description of functions that are presented in the screenshots a bit later.