1 Introduction
Fox-IT’s (FoxCERT) and the wider global NCC Group incident response team
carries out incident response engagements for clients every day. Our engagements
are often high profile in nature and so together with timeliness of detection,
the quality of incident response is probably the most important factor in what
the impact of an incident will be.
In the context of incident response, we support our clients with crisis management, technical
investigations and remediation of the incident. Almost without exception, the most valuable
technical insights for live and historic forensic investigation are gained from the network and
endpoint data. In other words: network and endpoint visibility are crucial for timely detection and
quality response, the most deciding factor in what the impact of an incident will be.
With that in mind, the goal of publishing this report is twofold. The first is to help organizations
and wider cyber defense eco-system defend against the specific actor described in this report.
The second is to help readers understand the tools and techniques that threat actors can use to
compromise an enterprise infrastructure and steal information. This in turn helps them in their role
as incident responder, SOC or threat analyst or even as security officer.
Very little is publicly known or published about the actor that we describe, but rather than giving
this actor an alias of our own, we chose to reach out to industry partners. This collaboration across
the private sector helped us attribute some of the previously unpublished techniques and tools in
this report, with medium confidence, to a Chinese threat actor known within the industry as APT20.
Based on the observed victims of this actor we also assess that this threat actor is likely working in
the interest of the Chinese government.
This report provides the reader with an overview of the techniques known to us that are used by
the actor. It is described in the following five chapters:
• Modus operandi describes, without going into too much technical detail, the actor’s typical
way of working.
• Attribution describes where the actor is most likely operating from.
• Victims describes the countries and sectors in which the victims of this actor reside.
• Custom tooling describes a number of tools, and their functionality, that we believe are
exclusively used by this actor.
• MITRE ATT&CK maps the techniques that the actor uses to the MITRE ATT&CK Matrix1.
This report is accompanied by a parallel publication on GitHub where Snort and YARA signatures
can be found, as well as indicators of compromise.

https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Windows_Technique_Matrix

4 | Fox-IT | Operation Wocao