Overview
Recent operations we attribute to this threat actor rely on the same intrusion vector: spearphishing emails with attached archives containing a malicious LNK file.
Despite looking like documents from the
Explorer or popular archive-extraction products,
the shortcuts lead to cmd.exe. These shortcut
files have the following structure:
https://securelist.com/deathstalker-mercenary-triumvirate/98177/ 1/13
11/26/2020 Lifting the veil on DeathStalker, a mercenary triumvirate | Securelist
Clicking them initiates a convoluted sequence resulting in the execution of arbitrary code on
the victim’s machine. A short PowerShell script, passed through cmd.exe’s arguments,
bootstraps the following chain:
https://securelist.com/deathstalker-mercenary-triumvirate/98177/ 2/13
11/26/2020 Lifting the veil on DeathStalker, a mercenary triumvirate | Securelist
Stage 0’s role is to extract and execute the next element of the chain, as well as a decoy
document embedded inside the LNK file to display to the user. This creates the illusion
of having clicked on a real document and ensures the victim doesn’t get suspicious.
https://securelist.com/deathstalker-mercenary-triumvirate/98177/ 3/13
11/26/2020 Lifting the veil on DeathStalker, a mercenary triumvirate | Securelist
Stage 1 is a PowerShell script containing C# assembly designed to connect to a dead
drop resolver (more on this in the next paragraph) and obtain cryptographic material
used to decode the last stage of the chain by extracting a “DLL” file from the shortcut
and locating a Base64-encoded list of URLs at a fixed offset. This establishes
persistence by creating a shortcut (using the dropped icon) in the Windows startup
folder pointing to the VBE startup script.
Finally, on stage 2, the actual malware implant used to take control of the victim’s
machine. It connects to one of the dead drop resolvers to get the address of the real
C&C server and enters a loop that looks for orders every few seconds.
Upon system restart, the VBE startup script – which closely resembles stage 0 – is
automatically executed, once again leading all the way to Powersing stage 2.
Communications with the C&C server involve the exchange of JSON-encoded objects.
Powersing only has two tasks:
Capture periodic screenshots from the victim’s machine, which are immediately sent to
the C&C server (two built-in commands allow operators to change screenshot quality
and periodicity)
Execute arbitrary Powershell scripts provided by the C&C
On stages 1 and 2, security software evasion is carried out with a high degree of variation
across the different samples we’ve analyzed. Depending on the AV detected on the machine,
Powersing may opt for alternative persistence methods, or even stop running entirely. We
suspect that the group behind this toolset performs detection tests before each of their
campaigns and updates their scripts based on the results. This indicates an iterative and fastpaced approach to software design. It’s worth pointing out that stage 2 actively looks for
traces of virtualization (for example, vendor specific MAC addresses) and malware analysis
tools on the machine, and reports this information to the C&C server.
To wrap up this section, we’d like to mention that Powersing isn’t a monolithic malware
platform. Instead, it’s a stealthy foothold inside the victim’s network with its key role to
enable the projection of further tools.