Situation overview
According to Kaspersky Lab, between 2012 and 2015, law enforcement agencies from a
number of different countries, including the United States, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and the
EU arrested over 160 Russian-speaking cybercriminals who were members of small,
Kaspersky Lab
Russian financial cybercrime: how it works.
medium-sized and large criminal groups. They were all suspected of being engaged in
stealing money using malware. The total damage resulting from their worldwide activity
exceeded $790 million dollars. (This estimate is based both on the analysis of public
information about the arrests of people suspected of committing financial cybercrime in the
period between 2012 and 2015 and on Kaspersky Lab’s own data.) Of this sum, about $509
million dollars was stolen outside the borders of the former USSR. Of course, this figure only
includes confirmed losses, the details of which were obtained by law enforcement authorities
during the investigation. In reality, cybercriminals could have stolen a much larger amount.
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2012 2013 2014 2015
3
The number of arrests of Russian-speaking cybercriminals as officially announced during the period 2012 to 2015
Since 2013, Kaspersky Lab’s Computer Incidents Investigation team has participated in the
investigation of more than 330 cybersecurity incidents. More than 95% of these were
connected with the theft of money or financial information.
Although the number of arrests of Russian-language criminals suspected of financial
cybercrime increased significantly in 2015 compared with the previous year, the
cybercriminal market is still "crowded." According to Kaspersky Lab experts, over the last
three years Russian-language cybercrime has recruited up to a thousand people. These
include people involved in the creation of infrastructure, and writing and distributing malware
code to steal money, as well as those who either stole or cashed the stolen money. Most of
those arrested are still not in prison.
We can calculate fairly precisely the number of people who make up the core structure of an
active criminal group: the organizers, the money flow managers involved in withdrawing
money from compromised accounts and the professional hackers. Across the cybercriminal
Kaspersky Lab
4
Russian financial cybercrime: how it works.
underground, there are only around 20 of these core professionals. They are regular visitors
of underground forums, and Kaspersky Lab experts have collected a considerable amount of
information that suggests that these 20 people play leading roles in criminal activities that
involve the online theft of money and information.
The exact number of groups operating across Russia and its neighboring countries is
unknown: many of those involved in criminal activities participate in several thefts and then,
for various reasons cease their activity. Some participants of known but apparently
disbanded groups continue their criminal activities as part of new groups.
Kaspersky Lab’s Computer Incidents Investigation Department can now confirm the activity
of at least five major cybercriminal groups specializing in financial crimes. These are the
groups whose activities have been monitored by the company's experts over the last few
years.
All five groups came to the attention of the company’s experts in 2012-2013, and are still
active. They each number between ten and 40 people. At least two of them are actively
attacking targets not only in Russia but also in the USA, the UK, Australia, France, Italy and
Germany.
Since the investigation into these groups has not been completed, it is not possible to publish
more detailed information on the activities of these groups. Kaspersky Lab continues to
investigate their activity and is cooperating with the law enforcement agencies of Russia and
other countries in order to curb their cybercriminal business.
Investigation into the activities of these groups has allowed Kaspersky Lab experts to form
an idea about their methods of operation and the structure of the cybercriminal market.
Kaspersky Lab
5
Russian financial cybercrime: how it works.