Credential harvesting with compromised SSL certificates
Once the threat actors appeared to have access to the network, they stole the organization's SSL
certificate. The attackers would then use the certificate on actor-controlled servers to perform additional
MitM operations to harvest additional credentials. This allowed the actors to expand their access into the
targeted organization's network. The stolen certificates were typically only used for less than one day, likely
as an operational security measure. Using stolen certificates for an extended period would increase the
likelihood of detection. In some cases, the victims were redirected to these actor-controlled servers
displaying the stolen certificate.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2019/04/seaturtle.html 6/10
4/19/2019 Talos Blog || Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: DNS Hijacking Abuses Trust In Core Internet Service
One notable aspect of the campaign was the actors' ability to impersonate VPN applications, such as Cisco
Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) products, to perform MitM attacks. At this time, we do not believe that
the attackers found a new ASA exploit. Rather, they likely abused the trust relationship associated with the
ASA's SSL certificate to harvest VPN credentials to gain remote access to the victim's network. This MitM
capability would allow the threat actors to harvest additional VPN credentials.
As an example, DNS records indicate that a targeted domain resolved to an actor-controlled MitM server.
The following day, Talos identified an SSL certificate with the subject common name of "ASA Temporary
Self Signed Certificate" associated with the aforementioned IP address. This certificate was observed on
both the actor-controlled IP address and on an IP address correlated with the victim organization.
In another case, the attackers were able to compromise NetNod, a non-profit, independent internet
infrastructure organization based in Sweden. NetNod acknowledged the compromise in a public statement
on February 5, 2019. Using this access, the threat actors were able to manipulate the DNS records for
sa1[.]dnsnode[.]net. This redirection allowed the attackers to harvest credentials of administrators who
manage domains with the TLD of Saudi Arabia (.sa). It is likely that there are additional Saudi Arabia-based
victims from this attack.
In one of the more recent campaigns on March 27, 2019, the threat actors targeted the Sweden-based
consulting firm Cafax. On Cafax's public webpage, the company states that one of their consultants actively
manages the i[.]root-server[.]net zone. NetNod managed this particular DNS server zone. We assess with
high confidence that this organization was targeted in an attempt to re-establish access to the NetNod
network, which was previously compromised by this threat actor.