HOW IRAN EMBRACED CYBER REPRESSION
Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has long believed Washington aspires to
overthrow the Islamic Republic by instigating mass mobilization along the lines of the
1989 Velvet Revolution that toppled the Communist regime in Czechoslovakia. [12] Following similar logic, Iran’s first cyber operations were motivated by fears that the internet
facilitated external threats to regime stability. Tehran often labels the online dissent of its
citizenry as cyberwarfare orchestrated by its enemies, namely the United States, to subvert
the Islamic Republic. Western government support for unrestricted internet access and
Persian-language satellite television stations—such as BBC Persian TV—are perceived as
key elements of this strategy. The advent of social media sites, such as Facebook and Twitter, and messaging apps, such as Telegram , are especially threatening given they challenge
the Iranian government’s long-standing monopoly over media and communications.
Khamenei’s greatest concerns were realized when the June 2009 contested reelection of
hardline president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad—amid widespread allegations of fraud—provoked Iran’s largest popular uprisings since the country’s 1979 revolution. It was also a
10     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
pivotal moment in the Iranian government’s embrace of offensive cyber capabilities, as
this mass mobilization—known as the Green Movement—became one of the first known
targets of the regime’s operations. The online contest between the opposition, using the
internet to coordinate political resistance, and the government, attempting to repress mobilization, set the stage for future conflicts, including those with foreign powers.
Soon after an estimated 2 million Iranians protested in Tehran on June 15, 2009, supporters of the Green Movement began to battle the government over control of information. [13] When the authorities expelled foreign media, interfered with mobile phone
networks, and arrested prominent critics, the internet became a primary channel for
coordination amid the chaos. In response, the
U.S. Congress, then U.S. president Barack