Gamaredon group grows its game
welivesecurity.com /2020/06/11/gamaredon-group-grows-its-game
Active APT group adds cunning remote template injectors for Word and Excel
documents; unique Outlook mass-mailing macro
Jean-Ian Boutin
11 Jun 2020 - 11:30AM
June 11, 2020
ESET researchers have discovered several previously undocumented post-compromise
tools used by the highly active Gamaredon threat group in various malicious campaigns.
One tool, a VBA macro targeting Microsoft Outlook, uses the target’s email account to
send spearphishing emails to contacts in the victim’s Microsoft Office address book. We
also analyzed further Gamaredon tools that have the ability to inject malicious macros
and remote templates into existing Office documents.
Tools linked to Gamaredon and discussed in this blogpost are detected as variants of
MSIL/Pterodo, Win32/Pterodo or Win64/Pterodo by ESET’s products.
The Gamaredon group has been active since at least 2013. It has been responsible for a
number of attacks, mostly against Ukrainian institutions, as evidenced in several reports
from CERT-UA and from other official Ukrainian bodies over time.
In the last few months, there has been an increase in activity from this group, with
constant waves of malicious emails hitting their targets’ mailboxes. The attachments to
these emails are documents with malicious macros that, when executed, try to download
a multitude of different malware variants.
Gamaredon has leveraged many different programming languages in the past few
months, ranging from C# to VBScript, batch files and C/C++. The tools used by
Gamaredon are very simple and are designed to gather sensitive information from
compromised systems and to spread further.
Contrary to other APT groups, the Gamaredon group seems to make no effort in trying
to stay under the radar. Even though their tools have the capacity to download and
execute arbitrary binaries that could be far stealthier, it seems that this group’s main
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/06/11/gamaredon-group-grows-its-game/ 1/13
8/24/2020 Gamaredon group grows its game | WeLiveSecurity
focus is to spread as far and fast as possible in their target’s network while trying to
exfiltrate data. Could we be missing something?