Introduction
In the past two months, we observed multiple APT groups attempting to leverage the Russia and
Ukraine war as a lure for espionage operations. It comes as no surprise that Russian entities
themselves became an attractive target for spear-phishing campaigns that are exploiting the
sanctions imposed on Russia by western countries. These sanctions have put enormous pressure on
the Russian economy, and specifically on organizations in multiple Russian industries.
Check Point Research (CPR) details a targeted campaign that has been using sanctions-related
baits to attack Russian defense institutes, part of the Rostec Corporation. The investigation shows
that this campaign is part of a larger Chinese espionage operation that has been ongoing against
Russian-related entities for several months. CPR researchers estimate with high confidence that the
campaign has been carried out by an experienced and sophisticated Chinese nation-state APT. In
the below blog, the researchers reveal the tactics and techniques used by the threat actors and
provide a technical analysis of the observed malicious stages and payloads, including previously
unknown loaders and backdoors with multiple advanced evasion and anti-analysis techniques.
Key findings:
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 1/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
CPR unveils a targeted campaign against at least two research institutes in Russia, whose
primary expertise is the research and development of highly technological defense solutions.
Research suggests that another target in Belarus, likely also related to the research field,
received a similar spear-phishing email claiming that the US is allegedly spreading a
biological weapon.
The defense research institutes that we identified as targets of this attack belong to a holding
company within the Russian state-owned defense conglomerate Rostec Corporation. It is
Russia’s largest holding company in the radio-electronics industry and the specific targeted
research institutes’ primary focus is the development and manufacturing of electronic
warfare systems, military-specialized onboard radio-electronic equipment, air-based radar
stations and means of state identification.
This campaign is a continuation of what CPR believes to be a long-running espionage
operation against Russian-related entities that has been in operation since at least June 2021.
The operation may still be ongoing, as the most recent activity was observed in April 2022.
This activity was attributed with high confidence to a Chinese threat actor, with possible
connections to Stone Panda (aka APT10), a sophisticated and experienced nation-statebacked actor, and Mustang Panda, another proficient China-based cyber espionage threat
actor. CPR named this campaign Twisted Panda to reflect the sophistication of the tools
observed and the attribution to China.
The hackers use new tools, which have not previously been described: a sophisticated multi
layered loader and a backdoor dubbed SPINNER. These tools are in development since at
least March 2021 and use advanced evasion and anti-analysis techniques such as multi-layer
in-memory loaders and compiler-level obfuscations.