White Ops | Inside the Largest Connected TV Botnet Attack
whiteops.com /blog/giving-fraudsters-the-cold-shoulder-inside-the-largest-connected-tv-bot-attack
Researchers: Dr. Mike Moran, Mikhail Venkov, Ryan Castellucci, Aaron DeVera, and Davide
Mandrini
Connected TV (CTV) provides massive opportunities for streaming services and brands to
engage with consumers through compelling content and advertising. Because of this opportunity,
it is incredibly important for the CTV ecosystem and brands to work together through a collectively
protected advertising supply chain to ensure fraud is recognized, addressed and eliminated as
quickly as possible as bad actors always follow the money. Ad fraud can happen when you buy
inventory through unprotected channels. Ad fraud can be eliminated quickly through protected
channels where there are direct relationships, trust, and full transparency. Working together
through a collectively protected supply chain will ensure the ecosystem realizes the full benefits of
creating a great CTV customer experience that is ad fraud free.
A new CTV ad fraud operation—named ICEBUCKET—started in a part of programmatic
advertising where the supply chain is less transparent, sellers are not reported in sellers.json files,
and buyers and sellers typically don't have a direct relationship. The bad actors behind
ICEBUCKET had a good thing going until they tried to expand and scale their efforts, including
the partners we protect. However, by working with our partners, we blocked the attack, protected
and shared data across our partner network, and improved the efficacy of our platform to ensure
we stay ahead of ad fraud and the bad actors behind it. Our success speaks to the long-term
planning, processes, and practices in place between us and our partners.
The White Ops Satori Threat Intelligence and Research team recently uncovered the largest and
widest Connected TV (CTV) related fraud operation to date. At its peak, the ICEBUCKET bot
operation impersonated more than 2 million people in over 30 countries . The operation
counterfeited over 300 different publishers, stealing advertising spend by tricking advertisers into
thinking there were real people on the other side of the screen, when in reality, these were bots
pretending to be real people watching TV. The operation hid its sophisticated bots within the
https://www.whiteops.com/blog/giving-fraudsters-the-cold-shoulder-inside-the-largest-connected-tv-bot-attack 1/8
4/17/2020 White Ops | Inside the Largest Connected TV Botnet Attack
limited signal and transparency of server side ad insertion (SSAI) backed video ad impressions.
The White Ops Bot Mitigation Platform is able to detect this fraud scheme and protect partners
from falling victim to this operation, and similar ones.
Here are the details on how the ICEBUCKET operation was detected and stopped from impacting
a collectively protected supply chain. In an effort to further protect advertisers, we lay out our
recommendations to the CTV ecosystem and brands to remain fraud free.