Watering Hole
Earth Lusca compromised the websites of their targets or created fake web pages to perform their
watering hole attacks. We observed the threat actor copying web pages from legitimate websites and
manipulating them to inject malicious JavaScript code. They then deliver the link of these malicious pages
to their victims to carry out the attack. During another investigation, we found that they also directly
injected their malicious script into the HR system of a compromised target. The injected scripts used in
different cases are similar and are likely modified from a project called “Flash-Pop.”
Figure 5. The script used to check the User-Agent string and send the callback to “ts.php”
The injected script’s main function is to launch social engineering attacks. During the attack, the injected
script will try to detect the browsers User-Agent and avoid attacking mobile devices. It sends a callback
HTTP request to “ts.php" to a remote server as another filtering technique. The PHP script “ts.php”
recodes the information of request to include the access time, the source IP address and the HTTP
referrer header into a log file “vi.txt”. The referrer header shows where the script is triggered from.
When the PHP script finds a request with a source IP address that hasn’t been recorded in the vi.txt file, it
will return HTTP status code 200. The social engineering message will only show up on the watering hole
page and instruct the targets to download the malware file when the injected script receives code 200
from the PHP script. We believe that this PHP script was used to record the victims’ information as well as
to avoid a case of double infection on the same target.
The social engineering messages used in the Earth Lusca attack include requests to update Flash
applications or showing a DNS resolving error and then asking the victim to download a file. The
downloaded files from their watering hole attack are the group’s Cobalt Strike loaders.
Figure 6. The DNS error message pop up found in the watering hole page (translated via Google
Translate: “Browser DNS resolution error. Please download and try again after clearing the DNS cache.
Open website. Download again.”)
Figure 7. The Flash update request message pop up on a crafted online video page