Let’s dig a little deeper inside
The most popular sample in our telemetry was:
MD5 0c5b15d89fda9baf446b286c6f97f535
Compiled 2019.03.09 06:17:19 (GMT)
Size 520704
Internal name Milum46_Win32.exe
This application exists as an invisible toolbar window. The main malicious functions are
implemented in a separate thread. Milum decodes its configuration data and, besides timeouts, it
gets the parameters “clientid” and “encrypt_key” to use in RC4 encryption.
Example of the decoded and beautified configuration data. The “clientid” field differs in
every sample observed
The following table describes the different configuration parameters:
https://securelist.com/wildpressure-targets-industrial-in-the-middle-east/96360/ 3/7
3/27/2020 WildPressure targets industrial-related entities in the Middle East | Securelist
Config parameter Parameter features
shortwait Pause in milliseconds between C2 communication working cycles
clientid Unique ASCII target name
encrypt_key RC4 encryption key for JSON-based C2 communications
relays – url Full URL to send HTTP POST beacon and GET commands
relays – key Unique ASCII key for each C2 to communicate with it
The operators can run the Trojan using the key (“b” or “B”) as the first argument and the file name
as the second. In this case, Milum will delete the file sent as a parameter. Then the Trojan will
create the C:\ProgramData\Micapp\Windows\ directory and parse its configuration data to form
the beacon to send to its C2.
To send the beacon, Milum uses the HTTP POST request with three parameters as enumerated
in the table below.
Beacon
parameter
Parameter values
md Clientid from config, with prefix 01011 and random five-character
ASCII suffix
nk Key from config to communicate with C2, differs for each server
val Compressed, encrypted and encoded command JSON data
The first two parameters are taken from the configuration data. The third one is encrypted and
after decryption, decompression, decoding and beautifying, it looks like this:
https://securelist.com/wildpressure-targets-industrial-in-the-middle-east/96360/ 4/7
3/27/2020 WildPressure targets industrial-related entities in the Middle East | Securelist
Decoded and beautified JSON beacon to C2. In this case, the connection to the first server
was unsuccessful
There are several fields worth mentioning here. We referred above to different programming
languages besides C++: “vt” seems to reference a programming language and “ext” a file
extension. The only reason that we could think of for keeping these is if the attackers have
several Trojans, written in different languages, to work with the same control server.
Regarding the “command” field, the control servers were inaccessible at the time of the analysis,
so we don’t have commands from them. However, we analyzed the command handlers in Milum’s
code as described below:
Code Mean‐
ing
1 Execu‐
tion
2 Server
to client
3 Client to
server
Features
Silently execute received interpreter command and return result
through pipe
Decode received content in “data” JSON field and drop to file men‐
tioned in “path” field
Encode file mentioned in received command “path” field to send it
4 File info Get file attributes: hidden, read only, archive, system or executable
5 Cleanup Generate and run batch script to delete itself
6 Com‐
mand
result
7 System
informa‐
tion
8 Directo‐
ry list
Get command execution status
Validate target with Windows version, architecture (32- or 64-bit),
host and user name, installed security products (with WQL request
“Select From AntiVirusProduct WHERE displayName <>’Windows
Defender'”)
Get info about files in directory: hidden, read only, archive, system or
executable
9 Update Get the new version and remove the old one