Components and Communication Protocol
Once the tampered installer is downloaded and executed, it will drop 4 files: the Legit Setup, the Launcher and
Persistence component, the Exfiltration and Command Execution component and the File Searcher component.
The first executed file is the original installer, which will be prompted to the user so that they would not suspect
anything. All malicious actions are performed in the background.
All of these 4 components are encrypted in the resource section of the initial dropper. Each resource has an 8-byte
header that tells the dropper the size of the executable and the component type.
A summary of the installation process is illustrated in the figure below:
After the Launcher component is dropped into the %SYSTEM% folder, it is executed by calling the function responsible
for creating a new service. The name of the service is a common one, either replacing a non-vital system service
( Print Spooler ) or having a name that does not raise any suspicions ( Registry Maintenance Server ). The
service will be used as a persistence mechanism and will execute the Launcher component.
The dropper starts the service and will drop the rest of the executables.
The Launcher component executes the Exfiltration and Command Execution component, usually placed in the same
system folder, and waits for an uninstall event.
The Exfiltration component is responsible for running the File Searcher component and for exfiltrating the files to the
C&C server through a POST request. It regularly asks the C&C server for download and execution commands or an
uninstall command. The last one, if received, will be sent as an event to the Launcher component. The get_command is
sent as POST request with an argument called name that contains a tag. This tag is used as a form of authentication
and is influenced by the compilation time of the file. In our tests, the servers always seem to respond with a 404 if
asked for a command.
The File Searcher component loops through every drive and looks for files with certain extensions. The malicious binary
has an extension list embedded (usually identifying different types of documents). If a file with an extension from that
list is found, it will be copied into a temporary zip archive. After completing adding the files to the archive, it will split it
8
Bitdefender Whitepaper
StrongPity APT - Revealing Trojanized Tools, Working Hours and Infrastructure
into hidden .sft encrypted files. The .sft files are read by the Exfiltration component, sent to the C&C server and deleted
from the disk.
After the exfiltration process is completed, the Exfiltration component will wait for further commands as described
above.
As mentioned earlier, the files that will be exfiltrated are first copied into a zip file. This zip file will be encrypted into
multiple .sft files as follows:


The File Searcher component will read 2048 bytes from the zip file


For each byte it will apply a xor operation between the least significant 4 bits and the most significant 4 bits and it
will write the result in the .sft file


The first two steps are repeated a maximum of 53 times


If the zip file still has unprocessed data, a new .sft file will be created


For each zip file, the first .sft file will have a N prepended as a first character, the rest of the .sft files which complete
an archive will have an O prepended.

