Other interesting discoveries
On May 14, Microsoft released fixes for a critical Remote Code Execution vulnerability (CVE-
2019-0708) in Remote Desktop Services (formerly known as Terminal Services) that affects some
older versions of Windows: Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2008 and
some unsupported versions of Windows – including Windows 2003 and Windows XP. Details on
how to mitigate this vulnerability are available in our private report ‘Analysis and detection
guidance for CVE-2019-0708’. The Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) itself is not vulnerable. This
vulnerability is pre-authentication and requires no user interaction. In other words, the
vulnerability is ‘wormable’, meaning that any future malware that exploits this vulnerability could
propagate from vulnerable computer to vulnerable computer in a similar way that WannaCry
spread. Microsoft has not observed exploitation of this vulnerability, but believes it is highly likely
that malicious actors will write an exploit for it.
Early in June, researchers at Malwarebytes Labs observed a number of compromises on Amazon
CloudFront, a Content Delivery Network (CDN), where hosted JavaScript libraries were tampered
with and injected with web skimmers. Although attacks that involve CDNs usually affect a large
number of web properties at once via their supply chain, this isn’t always the case. Some
websites either use Amazon’s cloud infrastructure to host their own libraries or link to code
developed specifically for them and hosted on a custom AWS S3 bucket. Without properly
validating externally loaded content, these sites are exposing their users to various threats,
including some that pilfer credit card data. After analyzing these breaches, researchers found that
they are a continuation of a campaign from Magecart threat actors attempting to cast a wide net
around many different CDNs. CDNs are widely used because they provide great benefits to
website owners, including optimizing load times and cost, as well as helping with all sorts of data
analytics. The sites they identified had nothing in common other than the fact they were all using
their own custom CDN to load various libraries. In effect, the only resulting victims of a
compromise on their CDN repository would be themselves.
Dragos has reported that XENOTIME, the APT group behind the TRISIS (aka TRITON and
HatMan) attack on a Saudi Arabian petro-chemical facility in 2017, has expanded its focus
beyond the oil and gas industries. Researchers have recently seen the group probing the
networks of electric utility organizations in the US and elsewhere – perhaps as a precursor to a
dangerous attack on critical infrastructure that could potentially cause physical damage or loss of
life. Dragos first noticed the shift in targeting in late 2018; and the attacks have continued into
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ 7/8
2019.
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
We recently reported on the latest versions of FinSpy for Android and iOS, developed in mid-

This surveillance software is sold to government and law enforcement organizations all

over the world, who use it to collect a variety of private user information on various platforms.
WikiLeaks first discovered the implants for desktop devices in 2011 and mobile implants were
discovered in 2012. Since then Kaspersky has continuously monitored the development of this
malware and the emergence of new versions in the wild. Mobile implants for iOS and Android
have almost the same functionality. They are capable of collecting personal information such as
contacts, messages, emails, calendars, GPS location, photos, files in memory, phone call
recordings and data from the most popular messengers. The Android implant includes
functionality to gain root privileges on an unrooted device by abusing known vulnerabilities. It
would seem that the iOS solution doesn’t provide infection exploits for its customers: the product
seems to be fine-tuned to clean traces of publicly available jailbreaking tools. This might imply
that physical access to the victim’s device is required in cases where devices are not already
jailbroken. The latest version includes multiple features that we haven’t observed before. During
our recent research, we detected up-to-date versions of these implants in the wild in almost 20
countries, but the size of the customer base would suggest that the real number of victims may be
much higher.