Plugins overview
The Potao main DLL only takes care of its core functionality; the actual spying functions are
implemented in the form of downloadable modules. The plugins are downloaded each time
the malware starts, since they aren’t stored on the hard drive.
Win32/Potao supports two types of plugins. The first type is Full Plugin [9] and its export function is
called Plug . The second is Light Plugin with an export function Scan . The difference between the two
types is how they execute and return desired information. Full plugins run continuously until the
infected system is restarted, while Light plugins terminate immediately after returning a buffer with
the information they harvested off the victim’s machine.
It is worth mentioning that some of the plugins we observed during our monitoring of the Potao
botnet were signed with a certificate issued to “Grandtorg”:
Figure 25 – GrandTorg certificate details
The name “Grand Torg” sounds like “Great Market” in Russian, a rather common term; we
weren’t able to identify an institution with that name. The certificate Serial Number is:
0453B96EB039AFD6C9988C8CB698E7C9 and its effective Revocation Time: Aug 19 00:00:00
2014 GMT
Since the Revocation Time is the same as the Valid from time, all signatures made with this certificate
have been rendered invalid after the revocation request was issued. This strongly suggests that
the certificate has only been used for nefarious purposes, as opposed to having been stolen from a
legitimate company.
Table 1 contains a list of Potao plugins that we have encountered [10] .
9) “Full Plugin” and “Light Plugin” are terms used by the actual malware authors in debug builds of the trojan.
10) It is quite possible that we have not seen all existing plugins, so the list may be incomplete.
18
Filename Type Description
GetAllSystemInfo.dll Light Collects various kinds of system information, including: system
identifying information, proxy and language settings, lists of
processes, installed software, recently opened files, and so on.
GetAllSystemInfo.dll Light This plugin contains different functionality from the other plugin
with the same file name. It collects browsing history from Google
Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Opera.
FilePathStealer.dll Full Enumerates all drives and creates a list of potentially interesting
files: images and documents. The plugin searches for files with
the following extensions: JPG, BMP, TIFF, PDF, DOC, DOCX, XLS,
XLSX, ODT, ODS.
task-diskscanner.dll Full Like the FilePathStealer.dll plugin, this one also enumerates
potentially interesting files. It looks for document extensions and
common history, settings and cookie files belonging to Internet
browsers. After the search, the found files are sent to the C&C.
KeyLog2Runner.dll Full Logs key strokes & clipboard data from most common Internet
browsers and Skype.
PasswordStealer.dll Light Decrypts and steals passwords and settings from different
browsers and email clients.
Screen.dll Light Captures screenshots.
Poker2.dll Light Disables spreading through USB drives, deletes specific Registry
keys, and kills processes belonging to the malware.
loader-updater.dll Light Updates the trojan.
Table 1 – Win32/Potao plugins