Regin/ Prax/ WarriorPride
The Regin malware campaign targeted international organizations from 2008 to 2011
and from 2013-2014. The malware may have remained undiscovered for at least five years prior
to 2008. The complexity of the toolkit suggests the investment of significant resources over
several years. In support of this assumption, Symantec notes that Regin appears to be designed
for espionage campaigns that last several years.
The malware is allegedly the product of a collaboration between the United States NSA
and the British GCHQ. This allegation derives from a document leaked to Der Spiegel and the
Intercept by Edward Snowden. The malware primarily targeted systems belonging to private
individuals, small businesses, and telecommunications companies in Russia, Saudi Arabia,
Mexico, Ireland, and to a lesser extent, India, Afghanistan, Iran, Belgium, Austria, and Pakistan.
51
Symantec notes that the framework has been used for mass surveillance against “government
organizations, infrastructure operators, businesses, researchers, and private individuals. “
Nearly half of the attacks targeted private individuals. The quarter of the infections against
telecommunication infrastructure was likely an attempt to gain access to the calls routed
through the networks. Regin does not have a clear infection vector; though, Symantec suspects
that some infections are the result of watering-hole attacks and zero-day exploits.
Regin consists of a trojan and a backdoor that are widely customizable to fit the target.
The platform excels at remaining undetected and obfuscating its indicators of compromise.
Regin is a modular platform, reminiscent of Flame, Duqu, and Stuxnet. The Regin backdoor is a
five stage modular component and each stage after the first is hidden and encrypted. After
each successful installation of a stage, the next stage is decrypted and installed. Each piece
provides as little information as possible about the total component. If any stage fails then the
installation terminates. The flexibility of the Regin platform means that the actor can customize
the payload to the target. Consequently, Regin has dozens of discovered payloads and likely has
many more that remain known only to the actor. In general, the platform features several
remote access trojans (RATs), and tools to capture screenshots, log keystrokes, monitor
network traffic, steal credentials, recover deleted files, and hijack the point and click functions
of the mouse. According to Symantec, advanced payloads also contained “Microsoft IIS web
server traffic monitor and a traffic sniffer of the administration of mobile telephone base
controllers.” The platform also features anti-forensic capabilities, a custom-built encrypted
virtual file system (EVFS), and RC5 encryption. Communication with the C&C servers occurs
over ICMP/ ping, embedded commands in HTTP cookies, and custom TCP and UDP protocols.