Basic Description
Hikit consists of at least two generations of malware that provides basic RAT functionality. The first
generation of Hikit (referred to as “Gen 1”) operates as a server and requires an externally exposed
network interface in order for an attacker to access the victim machine. The second generation of Hikit
(referred to as “Gen 2”) uses the more traditional client model and beacons out to an attacker’s C2
server. While the communication models shifted dramatically between Gen 1 and Gen 2, both
generations of Hikit retain the same basic RAT function consisting of remote command shell, file
management, network proxy and port forwarding.
Both Gen 1 and Gen 2 sub-families of Hikit consist of a main DLL (referred to as “the DLL”) that
contains the RAT functionality; a kernel driver (referred to as “the Driver”) with Gen 2 also employs an
additional component: a loader executable. The driver component of Gen 1 and Gen 2 are drastically
different in their operation and intent. For the Gen 1 sub-family of Hikit, the driver acts as a NDIS
(network) driver that is responsible for interfacing the DLL to the network while preventing a direct
WinSock interface from occurring. The Gen 1 Driver listens to network traffic arriving at the local
network interface and waits for a specific trigger string. The trigger string varies by Driver and DLL
sample. The Gen 2 Driver is a simpler system driver that acts as a rootkit to hide processes, registry
keys and network connections associated with Gen 2 activity on the victim’s system.
Gen 2 uses a standard client-server malware model meaning that the malware no longer requires a
direct Internet-facing network card, no longer uses a network driver for networking, and provides the
ability to network multiple Gen 2 samples behind a firewall with greater ease (from the attacker’s
perspective). The Gen 2 sub-family, however, no longer employs network stealth provided by the Gen 1
network driver which exposes the C2 server addresses to analysts.
Each of the Hikit generations contains multiple sub-generations as the author(s) of Hikit have evolved
their code over time. There is a noticeable steep improvement over the code base of Gen 1 Hikit family
during its 2011 development period. The Gen 2 sub-generations share a similar improvement scale
between late 2011 and late 2013.