2019-2020: Hiding in plain sight using open source
GADOLINIUM’s evolving techniques
Two of the most recent attack chains in 2019 and 2020 were delivered from
GADOLINIUM using similar tactics and techniques. Below is a summary view of how
these attacks techniques have evolved followed by a detailed analysis of each step that
security practitioners can use to better understand the threat and what defenses to
implement to counter the attacks.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 3/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security
Weaponization
In the last year, Microsoft has observed GADOLINIUM migrate portions of its toolchain
techniques based on open source kits. GADOLINIUM is not alone in this move. MSTIC
has noticed a slow trend of several nation-state activity groups migrating to open source
tools in recent years. MSTIC assesses this move is an attempt to make discovery and
attribution more difficult. The other added benefit to using open-source types of kits is
that the development and new feature creation is done and created by someone else at no
cost. However, using open source tools isn’t always a silver bullet for obfuscation and
blending into the noise.
Delivery & Exploitation (2019)
In 2019, we discovered GADOLINIUM delivering malicious Access database files to
targets. The initial malicious file was an Access 2013 database (.accde format). This
dropped a fake Word document that was opened along with an Excel spreadsheet and a
file called mm.accdb.core which was subsequently executed. The file mm.accdb.core is a
VBA dropper, based on the CactusTorch VBA module, which loads a .NET DLL payload,
sets configuration information, and then runs the payload. Defender for Office 365
detects and blocks malicious Microsoft Access database attachments in email. A redacted
example of the configuration is displayed below.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 4/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security
Figure 3: VBA setting config and calling the “Run” function of the payload
Command and Control (2019)
Having gained access to a victim machine the payload then uses attachments to Outlook
Tasks as a mechanism for command and control (C2). It uses a GADOLINIUM-controlled
OAuth access token with login.microsoftonline.com and uses it to call the Outlook Task
API to check for tasks. The attacker uses attachments to Outlook tasks as a means of
sending commands or .NET payloads to execute; at the victim end, the malware adds the
output from executing these commands as a further attachment to the Outlook task.
Interestingly, the malware had code compiled in a manner that doesn’t seem to be used in
the attacks we saw. In addition to the Outlook Tasks API method described above, the
extra code contains two other ways of using Office365 as C2, via either the Outlook
Contacts API (get and add contacts) or the OneDrive API (list directory, get and add a
file).
Actions on Objective (2019)
GADOLINIUM used several different payloads to achieve its exploitation or intrusion
objectives including a range of PowerShell scripts to execute file commands
(read/write/list etc.) to enable C2 or perform SMB commands (upload/download/delete
etc.) to potentially exfiltrate data.
LazyCat, one of the tools used by GADOLINIUM, includes privilege escalation and
credential dumping capability to enable lateral movement across a victim network.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint detects the privilege escalation technique used:
LazyCat performs credential dumping through usage of the MiniDumpWriteDump
Windows API call, also detected by Microsoft Defender for Endpoint:
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 5/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security
Delivery (2020)
In mid-April 2020 GADOLINIUM actors were detected sending spear-phishing emails
with malicious attachments. The filenames of these attachments were named to appeal to
the target’s interest in the COVID-19 pandemic. The PowerPoint file ( 20200423-sitrep-
92-covid-19.ppt), when run, would drop a file, doc1.dotm . Similarly, to the 2019 example,
Microsoft Defender for Office detects and blocks emails with these malicious PowerPoint
and Word attachments.
Command and Control (2020)
The malicious doc1.dotm had two payloads which run in succession.
The first payload turns off a type
check DisableActivitySurrogateSelectorTypeCheck which the second stage
needs as discussed in this blog.
The second payload loads an embedded .Net binary which downloads, decrypts +
runs a .png file.
The .png is actually PowerShell which downloads and uploads fake png files using the
Microsoft Graph API to
https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/drive/root:/onlinework/contact/$($ID)_1.png:/con
tent where $ID is the ID of the malware. The GADOLINIUM PowerShell is a modified
version of the opensource PowershellEmpire toolkit.
Actions on Objectives (2020)
The GADOLINIUM PowerShell Empire toolkit allows the attacker to load additional
modules to victim computers seamlessly via Microsoft Graph API calls. It provides
a command and control module that uses the attacker’s Microsoft OneDrive account to
execute commands and retrieve results between attacker and victim systems. The use of
this PowerShell Empire module is particularly challenging for traditional SOC monitoring
to identify. The attacker uses an Azure Active Directory application to configure a victim
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 6/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security
endpoint with the permissions needed to exfiltrate data to the attacker’s own Microsoft
OneDrive storage. From an endpoint or network monitoring perspective the activity
initially appears to be related to trusted applications using trusted cloud service APIs and,
in this scenario,, no OAuth permissions consent prompts occur. Later in this blog post, we
will provide additional information about how Microsoft proactively prevents attackers
from using our cloud infrastructure in these ways.
Command and Control—Server compromise
GADOLINIUM campaigns often involve installing web shells on legitimate web sites for
command and control or traffic redirection. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint detects web
shells by analyzing web server telemetry such as process creation and file modifications.
Microsoft blogged earlier in the year on the use of web shells by multiple groups and how
we detect such activities.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 7/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security
Figure 6: Microsoft Defender for Endpoint alerts of suspicious web shell attacks.
Web shell alerts from Microsoft Defender for Endpoint can be explored in Azure Sentinel
and enriched with additional information that can give key insights into the attack.
MSTIC’s Azure Sentinel team recently published a blog outlining how such insights can
be derived by analyzing events from the W3CIISLog.
Microsoft’s proactive steps to defend customers
In addition to detecting many of the individual components of the attacks through
Microsoft’s security products and services such as Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and
for Microsoft Defender for Office as described above, we also take proactive steps to
prevent attackers from using our cloud infrastructure to perpetrate attacks. As a cloud
provider, Microsoft is uniquely positioned to disrupt this attacker technique. The
PowerShell Empire scenario is a good example of this. During April 2020, the Microsoft
Identity Security team suspended 18 Azure Active Directory applications that we
determined to be part of GADOLINIUM’s PowerShell Empire infrastructure (Application
IDs listed in IOC section below). Such action is particularly beneficial to customers as
suspending these applications protects all customers transparently without any action
being required at their end.)
As part of Microsoft’s broader work to foster a secure and trustworthy app ecosystem, we
research and develop detection techniques for both known and novel malicious
applications. Applications exhibiting malicious behavior are quickly suspended to ensure
our customers are protected.
GADOLINIUM will no doubt evolve their tactics in pursuit of its objectives. As those
threats target Microsoft customers, we will continue to build detections and implement
protections to defend against them. For security practitioners looking to expand your own
hunting on GADOLINIUM, we are sharing the below indicators of compromise (IOCs)
associated with their activity.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 8/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security