Notable Activity
an extensive command set capable of conducting reconnaissance of victim
machines, deleting files, downloading files, and exfiltrating data.
A number of factors support CHARMING KITTEN’s nexus to Iran. First of
all, the “Parastoo” password used by the malware is an Iranian word used
to refer to small birds. Also, the adversary used Iran-based web hosting
providers and infrastructure to host malicious domains. Finally, one of
the droppers related to one of the identified Parastoo variants dropped a
Persian-language decoy document purporting to be from Iran’s Ministry of
Interior.
PlugX – The Panda’s Tool of Choice
CrowdStrike has observed an upward trend in the use of PlugX Remote
Access Tool (RAT) malware during 2014. Multiple adversary groups have
used PlugX to target a number of sectors in countries surrounding China’s
sphere of influence, particularly those involved in science & technology,
government, and defense. Further afield, PlugX has been used in persistent
campaigns against commercial entities in the United States, as well as to
target organizations involved in counter-terrorism or other political
efforts worldwide.
Attacks associated with GOBLIN PANDA have been observed at an
increasing rate throughout the latter half of the year, while in the closing
months of 2014 CrowdStrike has investigated several instances of PlugX
activity consistent with the HURRICANE PANDA and PALE PANDA
adversaries. Other China-based adversaries observed using PlugX in their
operations include AURORA PANDA, NIGHTSHADE PANDA, PREDATOR
PANDA, EMISSARY PANDA, and WET PANDA. The upward trend in use of
PlugX indicates an increasing confidence in the capabilities of the platform,
justifying its continued use across multiple sectors and countries.
PlugX has existed in some form since 2008 and has evolved over time to
offer new capabilities and control mechanisms, supported by an active
development program. It provides an attacker with a range of functionality
including the ability to log keystrokes; modify and copy files; capture
screenshots or video of user activity; and perform administrative tasks such
22