First Stage – Lure Documents
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/bandook-signed-delivered/ 1/7
11/30/2020 Bandook: Signed & Delivered - Check Point Research
The first stage starts with a Microsoft Word document with embedded encrypted malicious script data and an external template that points to a document containing malicious VBA macros.
The external template is downloaded via a URL shortening web service like TinyURL or Bitly, which redirects to another domain controlled by the attacker.
The external template document contains a VBA code that runs automatically, decrypts the embedded data from the original lure document, and drops the decoded data into two files in the local user
folder: fmx.ps1 (the next stage PowerShell) and sdmc.jpg (base64 encoded PowerShell code).
To allow this behavior, the attackers use a combination of two techniques: encrypted data is embedded inside a shape object within the original document (hidden from view by a small font size and
white foreground), and is accessed from the external template code by using the following code:
```
   o4QQLW7zXjLbj = ActiveDocument.Shapes(1).TextFrame.TextRange.Text
```
For proper analysis, both the original document and the external template must be located, which makes things a bit more difficult for investigators.
We observed and analyzed multiple pairs of documents and external templates. Different lure images were used, alongside different encryption keys.
Examples of lure documents:
Figure 2: Lure documents used to convince the user to enable the macros.
Examples of external templates with macros:
Figure 3: External templates containing malicious macros.
The external templates are not visible to the victim. Their only purpose is to provide malicious macros.
Interestingly, with each attack, after a certain amount of time, the attacker switched the malicious external template to a benign one, further muddying our analysis of the infection chain.
Here again, the external templates look like random benign documents:
Figure 4: Benign external templates.
The themes of the documents are often of cloud-based services like Office365, OneDrive and Azure that contain images of other documents supposedly available once the victim clicks “Enable Content.”
For example, one of the documents that specifically got our attention depicts an Office365 logo and a preview of a certificate issued by the government of Dubai. JAFZA – Jebel Ali Free Zone,
featured at the top of the document, is an industrial area surrounding the port of Jebel Ali in Dubai, where more than 7,000 global companies are based.
Figure 5: Lure document (left) and an example of a similar publicly available certificate (right).
Sample document file names:
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/bandook-signed-delivered/ 2/7
11/30/2020 Bandook: Signed & Delivered - Check Point Research
Malaysia Shipment.docx
Jakarta Shipment.docx
malta containers.docx
Certified documents.docx
Notarized Documents.docx
bank statement.docx
passport and documents.docx
Case Draft.docx
documents scan.docx