2. Unseen Backdoor
In a certain month of 2015, an advanced threat detection system deployed by a customer prompted a spe
cial network intrusion alarm, and there were suspicious communication activities between important serv
ers. During the incident response process, packets were captured at several nodes in the network and the
server’s information was obtained by disk mirroring. After preliminary analysis, at least two servers in the
system network have been hacked and implanted with backdoors, and there are signs of a relatively large
amount of data leakage
The investigation of the incident involved 3 servers, one of which was the source of external attacks, host
A, and the other two internally affected servers, V1 (mail server) and V2 (a business server). There is
abnormal communication between external host A and the V1 server. Specifically, A first sends a SYN
packet with a 264-byte payload to port 80 of the V1 server (normal SYN packets generally do not carry a
Payload), and then the V1 server immediately initiates an external connection to the high-end port of the
A machine and maintains a large amount of exchange data. Data communication is encrypted.
At almost the same time, the V1 server connects to the V2 server's SMB service and performs some sensi
tive operations, including logging in to the V2 server with an administrator account, trying to open terminal
services, enumerating directories, and executing Powershell scripts through scheduled tasks.
At the same time, the V2 server connected to the 8081 port of the V1 server to download suspicious files,
including the Powershell script and the encrypted data of the second stage.
A simple HTTP server implemented in Python was started on port 8081 of the V1 server, and the V2 server
obtained two files from the above: index.html and index.htm. Among them, index.html is a Base64-encod
ed Powershell script. After this script is executed on the server, it will continue to download a file named
index.htm from the V1 server. The content is Base64-encoded data, but after decoding it is found to be an
unreadable string. Analysis of the Powershell script executed to download index.htm proves that this is a
piece of asymmetrically encrypted data.
Next, the V2 server connects to the high-end port of the V1 server to communicate with its own protocol,
and a large amount of interactive transmission data is encrypted.
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 2
Based on the above observations, it can be inferred from the above analysis that the V1/V2 servers have
been implanted with backdoors. By integrating the overall interaction of the A machine and the V1/V2
server, we can restore the communication process between the machines as follows:

Machine A connects to port 80 of the V1 server to send a knock request and start the backdoor program

on the V1 server;


The V1 server reversely connects the high-end port of machine A to establish a data pipeline;


The V2 server connects to the backdoor web service opened on the V1 server, and obtains PowerShell


execution from the V1 server;


The V1 server connects to the SMB service port of the V2 server to perform command operations;


The V2 server establishes a connection with the V1 server on the high-end port and uses its own encryp


tion protocol for data exchange;

The V1 server synchronizes data interaction with the A machine, and the V1 server acts as a data trans

fer between the A machine and the V2 server;
This is a backdoor communication technology that has never been seen before, implying an organization
with strong technical capabilities behind it.
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 3