CAMPAIGN ANALYSIS
iDefense analysts came across two spear-phishing campaigns in October 2017 involving
the use of a malware family publicly known as SOCKSBOT. One campaign spoofs the
Halyk Bank (Exhibit 1) and another spoofs the PrivatBank (Exhibit 2):
Exhibit 1: Spear-Phishing Email Spoofing Halyk Bank
Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 3
Exhibit 2: Content of a Spear-Phishing E-mail Spoofing PrivatBank Shared on the Public
Forum doneckforum.com
As Exhibits 1 and 2 show, both emails contain an identical message, even down to the
location of the embedded hyperlinks. The only differences are the embedded URLs and
the signature of the email in order to reflect the financial institution the attackers were
spoofing. This information suggests some sort of phishing kit was likely used to generate
the phishing emails.
An approximate translation of the e-mail spoofing Halyk Bank is as follows:
```
    Subject: Notification of opening an account (Halyk Bank of Kazakhs
    tan)
Dear customer, an account with the People's Bank of Kazakhstan has
been opened in your name, you can find detailed information in the
attached file.

If you did not receive an envelope with a login and password, then
you need to register to access the Personal Area. In case of loss
of login / password, you can register a new one in the section "Pa
ssword recovery".

If in the process of work you have any questions or problems, plea
se contact the Customer Service Department at the contacts listed
below. Our specialists are always ready to help you.

```
The embedded malicious hyperlinks used in the respective attacks are as follows:
```
    hxxp://halyk-bank[.]com/dog.zip
    hxxp://privatbank-ua[.]com/dog.zip
```
Subsequent technical analysis of the infection chain involved led iDefense to uncover an
18-month long campaign of spoofing banks in CIS countries, with the most recent
campaign observed on May 28, 2018 spoofing the Idea Bank CJSC:
Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 4
Exhibit 3: Spear-Phishing Email Spoofing Idea Bank CJSC
The forum member reports that two spear-phishing emails were received: one claiming
to be a notification about opening an account and the other claiming to be a notification
of a loan being taken out. The content of the latter email is approximately translated
below:
```
    Dear client, in your name, a loan was issued to Idea Bank, for mor
    e details, see the attached file in which the full name and phone
    number of your personal loan expert is indicated, the amount and c
    onditions for repaying the loan.
An envelope with a credit agreement was sent to your address. In c
ase you did not receive the envelope, you should contact your pers
onal expert.

In case of loss of the contract, you can restore it at the nearest
branch of the bank or request a duplicate through your personal ex

pert.

For any questions you are interested in, you can contact your pers
onal expert or the Customer Service Department at the contacts lis
ted below. Our specialists are always ready to help you.

Yours faithfully,

Idea Bank CJSC

Phone for calls from abroad: +375 (17) 306-33-14

```
In the attacks observed, all involved a phishing email with two embedded URLs directing
the user to download a file named dog.zip . Based on the content of the e-mails and the
domain names, the following banks were spoofed in this campaign:


Halyk Bank (Kazakhstan)


PrivatBank (Ukraine)


Idea Bank (Belarus)


Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 5

Tejara Bank (Iran)

It is also noteworthy that in both phishing kits, there are always two hyperlinks linking to
the same malicious file: one in the body of the message and one at the end of the e-mail
in a link called Договор (which translates to Contract ) .
The next section details the infection chain that follows the initial download.