Ad money feeds non-malicious scammers
Advertising helps legitimate app developers pay the bills, while providing
useful or entertaining apps to consumers. There's nothing inherently wrong
with advertising, but over the past year, SophosLabs researchers have
encountered a number of Android apps whose sole purpose appears to be
to maximize ad revenue – at the expense of virtually anything else.
To accomplish this, these unscrupulous developers have employed deception.
Some publish apps containing what amounts to mostly someone else's plagiarized
app, lumped in with advertising libraries that aren't part of the original app.
Because these apps contain no overtly malicious code, the automation used
to scan the apps when they are first uploaded to the Play Store reports that
they are benign, and allows them to be posted for download by consumers.
December 2019 8
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
Figure 4: A User-Agent string from an Android app reports to an advertiser that a fraudulent ad "click" originated from an Apple device
Other developers created original apps that, in addition to their stated functions,
employ specially developed instructions that forge "clicks" on advertising
content in order to convince advertisers that the app users have been so enticed
by the ads that appeared in the app. When a user actually taps on an ad, the
advertising network pays a premium to the developer whose app presented the
advertisement to the user in the first place. The fraudulent clicks guarantee that
the advertising affiliate gets paid the premium amount, time and time again.
Some of these deceptive apps reported a falsified User-Agent string
to the advertisers, making it appear as though the contrived clicks,
from a single Android app on one device, actually originated in dozens
of different apps on a wide range of devices, including iPhones.
This fraud not only takes a heavy toll on advertisers, but users find that the apps
that engage in this kind of advertising fraud consume monumental amounts of
data, even when the phone is in sleep mode. This imposes its own costs, including
reduced battery life, higher charges for data usage, and reduced performance.