Looking Forward
• Use of High-Level Languages – The 2014 yearly report noted
a downward trend in the use of low-level languages like C and
a growing trend in the use of high-level languages like C# and
Python. During 2014, CrowdStrike did observe several adversaries
such as VICEROY TIGER making heavy use of a malware variant
that primarily leveraged Python script.
• Activity in the Physical World – Physical world conflict often leads
to related cyber operations, and 2014 was no different. A number
of conflicts in the physical space such as those in the South China
Sea, Ukraine, and the Middle East all resulted in related cyber
operations by targeted intrusion adversaries in China, Russia, and
Iran, as well as nationalist and hacktivist actors.
2015 will undoubtedly hold many surprises and new developments
in the realm of computer security. The following section contains
estimative judgments about what may be likely trends or
occurrences in the next year.
Research and Development
Research and development during one year can often set the
expectations and direction of the next. With this in mind, the
CrowdStrike Intelligence team carefully observed patterns and
trends in the security research community. Based on the trends of
2014, the following estimates were developed:

It is expected that Let’s Encrypt, the first free certificate authority

with a pre-installed root certificate in major browsers, will launch in

This service will offer very simple command line provisioning

of certificates for use in HTTPS. As a result of the ease of use and
availability, it is likely that an increasing amount of Internet traffic
will be encrypted. As HTTP traffic becomes less common, it is
more likely to be suspect and subject to closer inspection. This
opens the possibility that more adversaries may look to leverage
SSL certificates for command and control. Additionally, Content
Security Policy (CSP) for webpages means that XSS-attacks will
become more complicated to mount. In 2015, it is expected that
62