working closely with the Joint Staff and Services.
More significantly, NSA has now embarked upon a broad effort to
modernize the Department’s cryptography to make it resistant
to exploitation by a quantum computer. Such a computer is still
theoretical, but its development could render large swaths
of the U.S. cryptographic inventory obsolete. Thus, the DoD
and the Intelligence Community (IC) are relying heavily on
NSA, with substantial fiscal investments to field next-generation
encryption. To this end, NSA has approved a new suite of
quantum-resistant cryptographic algorithms for use in National
Security Systems that address a range of potential threats for future
use in equipment supporting the warfighter.
Modernizing encryption even extends to the nuclear arsenal. NSA provided
the cybersecurity architecture and security engineering for the Ground
Based Strategic Deterrent (GBSD). The GBSD is slated to replace the nation’s aging
intercontinental ballistic missiles.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW
4
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov
Foremost in NSA’s code-making mission is the production of the nuclear “launch codes”
and related materials that would be used should the president ever authorize the launch
of U.S. nuclear weapons. NSA also provides the encryption in the communications
systems used to convey those orders. NSA’s code-making mission extends to the
production and distribution of keys, codes, and cryptographic materials used by the U.S.
Government and U.S. military to protect communications from adversary eavesdropping
and data/information from adversary intrusions.
NSA’s keys, codes, and crypto mission rekeyed the entire U.S. Air Force (USAF) F-22
fighter jet fleet, as they do each year. The F-22 fleet of approximately 165 jets is a
critical asset in the Air Force arsenal and the cryptographic devices on each jet secure
communications and telemetry on and off the aircraft. This is typical of the kind of work
NSA does for the Armed Services in their entirety.
Lastly, NSA’s role in cryptography also includes the development and deployment of
protective technologies. These technologies are important in preventing or detecting
adversaries from physically exploiting cryptographic equipment and classified material
while they are deployed or shipped around the world. These anti-tamper and tamper
indicating solutions prevent or provide a clear indication if equipment or material has
been tampered with or exploited. In 2020,
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW
5
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov