This report presents the recommendations of the Partnership against Cybercrime Working Group as a first step towards establishing a global architecture for cooperation.
Cybercrime is a global threat that should concern
every decision-maker, whether at the corporate or
national level. According to the World Economic
Forum Global Risks Report 2020, over the next 10
years, cyberattacks will be the second greatest
risk businesses will face. [1] While nation state cyber
activities tend to garner the most international
attention, cybercriminals are responsible for the
majority of malicious activity on the internet –
cybercrime is estimated at about 80%. [2] As a
result, reducing cyber risk means reducing and
mitigating cybercrime.
Traditionally, governments have been responsible
for combating crime. However, the unique realm
of cyberspace has proved that governments do
not and will not have all the capabilities needed to
combat the cybercrime threat alone. In fact, many
of the required capabilities reside in the private
sector, such that private companies must be part
of the solution. Enabling stronger operational
collaboration between the private and public
sectors at the global level and combining their
resources and capabilities are therefore crucial
elements in reducing the risk posed by cybercrime.
Various significant collaborative initiatives exist, but
they remain fragmented and insufficient for current
needs. A paradigm shift in the way we collectively
address this challenge is thus required.
The World Economic Forum created the Partnership
against Cybercrime initiative to address this global
challenge by exploring ways to amplify publicprivate cooperation against cybercrime and
overcome existing barriers to cooperation. The
initiative brought together key private and public
stakeholders, including leading law enforcement
agencies, international organizations, cybersecurity
companies, service and platform providers, global
corporations and leading not-for-profit alliances.
Despite the challenges of the passing year due to
the COVID-19 pandemic, the community showed
notable commitment to the task, driven by the
mutual interests and benefits of working together
towards a shared goal. The members of the World
Economic Forum Partnership against Cybercrime
Working Group engaged in a series of virtual yet
intense discussions that resulted in the three main
recommendations presented in this report. The
approach chosen for this initiative was not only to
understand the challenges, but to design forwardlooking and action-oriented solutions.
The first two sections of this report present the
challenge of cybercrime and the need to foster
public-private cooperation. The third and fourth
sections lay out the principles and considerations
formulated by the working group to support
collaborative action against cybercrime. The final
section outlines a potential global architecture to
increase existing efforts and facilitate the required
cooperation.
This report highlights the commitment of an
engaged, purpose-driven multistakeholder
community that continues to develop and
implement these concepts with the aim of reducing
cybercrime globally. We hope it will encourage other
like-minded individuals and organizations to join us
in advancing this critical mission.
Partnership against Cybercrime 3