Probable Chinese Computer Attacks against America
Over the past several years, Chinese information
warfare and IO capabilities have become more vis­
ible and troubling. China has used these capabilities
not only against the U.S. but reportedly against
Japan, Taiwan, Germany, England, and Australia
as well. Due to the nature of computer network
operations, exactly how many Chinese information
warfare reconnaissance or offensive events have
transpired or the actual intent of these incursions
remains unknown. Those episodes that have leaked
into the public domain include the following:


Espionage conducted against the U.S. Depart­
ment of Defense computers, reported in Time
magazine. The report concerned a Chinese cyber
espionage ring that federal investigators codenamed Titan Rain. [33]


Chinese attempts to blind a U.S. satellite,
reported in Defense News . The report discussed highpowered Chinese laser attacks on a U.S. satellite. [34]


Chinese hacker attacks on the U.S. Naval


War College’s net capability, reported in Federal
Computer Week. This attack purportedly originated
from China and took systems off-line. [35]

The Chinese destruction of an old Chinese

weather satellite with an anti-satellite missile,
reported on National Public Radio. The report
cited a Beijing People’s University commentator.
He noted, “Satellite-killing technology is logical
in the development of missiles and an information
warfare capability.” [36]

A sophisticated computer attack on Tennes­
see’s Oak Ridge National Laboratory in October
and November 2007. The assault was in the form of

phony e-mails which, when opened, allowed hack­
ers to penetrate the lab’s computer security. [37]

Hacker attacks against Japan and Taiwan,
reported in the Japanese and Taiwanese press. [38] The
reports noted that these attacks were retaliations for
Japan’s anti-Chinese interpretations of history and
for Taiwanese claims for independence.

On 5 September 2007, the Kansas City Star car­
ried an article in which China denied cyber-attack­
ing any country. Foreign ministry spokesperson Jian
Yu noted, “The Chinese government has always
opposed an Internet-wrecking crime, including
hacking, and cracked down on it according to the
law.” [39] He dismisses accusations of Chinese attacks
52 November-December 2008  Military Review
on Pentagon computers as “groundless.” A Penta­
gon spokesperson refused to say if the perpetrator
was China, but Britain’s Financial Times quotes
an unidentified senior U.S. official as saying the
source had been traced to the PLA.
A week earlier, Germany’s Der Spiegel magazine
reported that the PLA had infiltrated Germany’s
government computer systems. The report said the
hackers had been traced back to Guangzhou and
Lanzhou. [40] Thus, circumstantial evidence contin­
ues to grow. It is difficult to believe that Germany,
Australia, Japan, Taiwan, and America are all
conniving to indict China and portray it as a new
threat. Indeed, through unprovoked cyber opera­
tions, China seems to have indicted itself without
anyone’s assistance.