Ajax/ FLYING KITTEN/ Saffron Rose
The Ajax group began in 2010 with website defacement attacks, but their activity
escalated to cyber-espionage by 2013. The group’s C&C infrastructure was set to Iran
Standard Time and used the Persian language. The Ajax team consists of 5-10 members and it
is unclear if the group is part of a larger movement such as the Iranian Cyber Army. The group
may have been founded by members using the monikers “HUrr!c4nE!” and “Cair3x.” The
group uses custom malware, but they do not leverage software exploits. The lack of exploits
indicates that the group is more likely a patriotic hacktivist group than a state sponsored
threat.
Ajax primarily targets United States defense contractors, firms that developed
technologies that bypassed the Iranian censorship policies, and Iranian dissidents. The
group has also participated in attacks against Israel with the Anonymous group.
The group tries to lure victims into revealing login credentials or self-installing
malware through basic social engineering instead of leveraging software exploits. These
social engineering attacks proceed through email, instant messages, private messages on
social media, fake login pages, and anti-censorship technology that has been pre-loaded with
malware. Past messages have directed targets to a fake login or conference page. The page
spoofs a legitimate organization or application and it collects user login credentials. After the
user logs in, they are directed to a different page that tells users that their browser is missing
a plugin or that they need to install proxy software, which is actually the malware. In some
cases, the messages just send the user to the latter page. Iranian Internet Service Providers
(ISPs) block “unacceptable content” such as pornography or sources of political dissidence.
Ajax team has been infecting anti-censorship software, such as Psiphon and Ultrasurf, with
malware and redistributing it.
24
Ajax relies on the Stealer malware which consists of a backdoor and tools. Using one
tool, the attackers can create new backdoors and bind them to legitimate applications.
Stealer collects system data, logs keystrokes, grabs screenshots, collects credentials,
cookies, plugin information, and bookmarks from major browsers, and collects email and
instant messenger information along with any saved conversations. Stealer also has
components that acquire Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) accounts from Windows vault and
collects user browsing history. Data is encrypted using symmetric encryption (AES-256)
using a hardcoded encryption key. The information is then exfiltrated using FTP with a built
in client (AppTransferWiz.dll).
A new version of the Stealer malware, dubbed Sayad, surfaced in July 2014. The
variant includes a dropper called Binder and new communication modules that allow it to
exfiltrate data using HTTP POST requests. Binder checks the .NET runtime version of the
target machine and drops the relevant version of the malware. The malware is now more
modular and contains development files suggesting the future capability to exfiltrate files
from the target system.