Golden Chickens components: TerraLoader family
In a small number of cases, the Evilnum group has also deployed some tools purchased
from a Malware ~~-~~ as ~~-~~ a ~~-~~ Service provider. This term is used to describe malware authors
who offer not only their malicious binaries, but also any necessary infrastructure (such as
the C&C servers) and even technical support to their criminal customers.
In this case the MaaS provider is known as Golden Chickens and has other customers
(apart from this group), such as FIN6 and Cobalt Group. Older versions of all the
components that we describe in the following sections were seen previously, in an attack
against eCommerce merchants that Visa attributed to FIN6 in February 2019. We believe
that FIN6, Cobalt Group and Evilnum group are not the same, despite the overlaps in
their toolsets. They just happen to share the same MaaS provider.
The Golden Chickens tools come as ActiveX components (OCX files) and all of them
contain TerraLoader code, which serves as a common loader for the various payloads
available to Golden Chickens’ customers. These tools are used by Evilnum as follows:
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/07/09/more-evil-deep-look-evilnum-toolset/ 8/21
7/10/2020 More evil: A deep look at Evilnum and its toolset | WeLiveSecurity
The attackers manually send a command to the JS or C# component to drop and
execute a batch file from one of their servers.
That batch file writes a malicious INF file and supplies it as a parameter to the
Microsoft utility cmstp.exe, which executes a remote scriptlet specified in the INF
file. This technique has been documented in the MITRE ATT&CK knowledge base
as CMSTP; an example of how this technique is used may be found here. This
technique has been used in the past by Cobalt, another financially motivated group.
The remote scriptlet contains obfuscated JS code that drops an OCX file and
executes it via regsvr32.exe.
The TerraLoader code performs several integrity checks before dropping the payload.
These checks implement anti-debugging techniques and try to identify anomalies to
prevent execution in sandboxed environments. Some of these techniques range from
detecting incorrect parameters, filenames and extensions, to detecting hardware
breakpoints or identifying specific modules loaded into the subject process. Should these
checks all pass, the actual payload is decrypted and executed.
We have seen Evilnum deploy the following Golden Chickens payloads in their attacks:
More_eggs
A Meterpreter payload that we will call TerraPreter
TerraStealer
TerraTV
Researchers from Positive Technologies recently analyzed some tools used by the Cobalt
group, including More_eggs version 6.6, which is one of the versions used by Evilnum
group. They have a very good analysis of TerraLoader, so we suggest checking their report
(section 4).