Nigeria, scams and oil
The so-called Nigerian scams have been a
constant presence on the Internet since its
inception, and even before that, when fraudsters
used postal mail to defraud victims.
In the most popular one, the scammer passes
themselves off as an important figure in the
Nigerian government or some other institution,
and contacts the victim offering them a share in a
large sum of money that they want to transfer out
of the country.
However, the Nigerian scam industry is large
and varied. Some variants are almost unknown
and affect all kinds of sectors, including the oil
industry.
The Nigerian town of Bonny is well-known in oil
production circles as the oil produced there, known
as Bonny Light Crude Oil (BLCO), has a very low
sulfur content, which makes it a highly desired
grade for its low corrosiveness.
The fact that this particular type of oil is in such
high demand has given rise to a particular type of
scam aimed at oil brokers, individuals who arrange
transactions involving crude oil between buyers
and sellers.
In Nigeria, every gas and oil transaction is
supervised by the NNPC (Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation), a government-owned
company. Anybody who wants to trade with oil in
Nigeria must be registered with the NNPC.
In short, the scam works like this : the scammer
contacts a broker/middleman and offers them a
large amount of BLCO, one to two million barrels,
at a very competitive price.
pandalabs
If the potential buyer is interested, they will ask
for documentary evidence that the product
exists (Proof of Product). There are different
types of documents that can be provided: a
quality certificate, a certificate of origin, a cargo
manifest, or the letter of ATS (Authority to Sell)
issued by the NNPC.
To close the deal, the buyer must pay a significant
amount of money -from $50,000 to $100,000- in
advance. However, once they pay the money they
are met with the nasty surprise that there is no oil.
The weakest link in the scam is the documentation
that the scammer must provide to convince the
buyer. Even though all of these documents can
be forged, the fraudster runs the risk of being
discovered by the broker.
To make it more plausible, scammers attempt to
use real documents so that if the broker wishes to
check their legitimacy, they will see that they are
real.
However, how difficult is it to obtain these
documents? It is very complicated. The only
way to do it is from companies in the sector. Oil
transportation companies, for example. This was
just a theory, at that time we didn’t have any
evidence to prove that that was the objective
of those responsible for the ‘Phantom Menace’
attack.
pandasecurity.com