Conclusion and Implications
Given our increased confidence that Bahamut was responsible for targeting of Qatari labor rights
advocates and its focus on the foreign policy institutions other Gulf states, Bahamut’s interests are
seemingly too expansive to be limited one sponsor or customer. However, those targets fall within
coherent themes. It is unclear which single client could be interested in both a Kashmiri organization
on a terrorism watchlist and Egyptian journalists. Thus far, Bahamut’s campaigns have appeared to be
primarily espionage or information operations – not destructive attacks or fraud. The targets and
themes of Bahamut’s campaigns have consistently fallen within two regions – South Asia (primarily
Pakistan, specifically Kashmir) and the Middle East (from Morocco to Iran). The targeting of
organizations scrutinized ties to terrorism raises the stakes for the operation, and differentiate it from
usual cybercrime. Targets outside of the Middle East tend to still have associations to Middle Eastern
issues, such as a European investment firm active in a Gulf country and a foreign policy experts in the
West. We have not found evidence of Bahamut engaging in crime or operating outside its limited
geographic domains, although this narrow perspective could be accounted for by its
compartmentalization of operations.
There remains ample questions and research opportunities to be explored. While Bahamut has
leveraged resources in Urdu and Arabic, it appears to be most comfortable in the English language
despite its uncommon grammar. While we note malicious domains that maintain a similar profile to
Bahamut that impersonate Qatari government email services, we have not found a direct connection
to those campaigns, and there has been little indication of the targeting of Qatar within our
monitoring. We have not fully explored the extent of Bahamut’s operations, such as its Windows
malware agent or possible other Android malware. Moreover, the networks and tactics used within
Bahamut’s operations turn up suspicious sites that resemble the Times of Arab operation disclosed
previously – often Middle East focused news published in English that recirculate content on
technology and politics with no clear attribution or purpose. These suspicious sites and those we can
account for as Bahamut repeatedly turn up a nexus with India, more so than the Middle East, despite
attempts by the attackers to stay anonymous. Once again, our investigation only seems to be a limited
window into a strange operation.
The proposition that a non-state hacker-for-hire operation could be used in pursuit of regional state
interests is not unusual. At this point most Middle Eastern governments have at least once procured
cyber espionage capabilities from abroad, such as from the government malware vendors FinFisher,
NSO and Hacking Team. By one account, Qatar even sought to outsource an ofensive cyber programf
                                         -                                             -                                             to American companies (https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national security/as cyberwarfare






















heats up allies turn to us companies for expertise/2012/11/22/a14f764c 192c 11e2 bd10
5f056538b7c_story.html?utm_termf =.a1a5dd6c70e3) – a deal that was quashed by the U.S.
government. This reliance on contractors could indicate that such countries have been unable to
develop their own in-house capacity, which would align with their general reliance on foreign military
firms (http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/15/world/middleeast/15prince.html). It is also worth noting
that while some government agencies may have acquired tools already, other entities such as local
police might still desire their own capabilities leading to overlaps. On the vendor side, in recent years
companies such as the Indian-firm Aglaya have been implicated in selling full hacking as a service






(https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/d7ywvx/leaked catalog weaponized information





















twitter aglaya), rather than simply providing tools for government use. This parallels the unclear lines
between cybercrime and espionage seen elsewhere, and hints that mercenary cyber operations are
more common than currently understood. Thus Bahamut warrants attention as an emblematic case of
the interest in cyber espionage in places such as the Middle East and the range of vendors willing to


meet that demand.