DanderSpritz NtElevation
DanderSpritz is a modular post-exploitation framework that contains dozens of different
interdependent modules. For example, some modules do not run unless specific modules
are not executed first, and others require special privileges or artifacts to run. Some of the
modules require privileges of a SYSTEM account to run. For this to happen, DanderSpritz
executes a set of modules named ‘NtElevation’ that are responsible for elevating the
privileges of the implant running on the victim’s computer.
9/36
Figure 6: An example for the dependencies of the PasswordDump module, including
NtElevation .
These privilege escalation modules are the ones we caught when we queried for Jian’s
global configuration table. And they were not alone. We also found a couple of more Local
Privilege Escalation exploits from the NtElevation series.
While the Eternal* exploits received a lot of attention, and rightly so, mentions of the
NtElevation exploits were somehow missing. We couldn’t find any online reference that
points to the existence of the NtElevation module as part of the Equation Group arsenal
or even as part of the “Shadow Brokers Exploits”, nor any reference to the following 4
exploit code names.
ElEi
ErNi
EpMo
EpMe
Note: Equation Group’s exploits are known to have code names that are abbreviated
using 4 letters. For example, Eternal Blue and Eternal Romance are internally referred to
as ETBL and ETRO . Similarly, the Local Privilege Escalation exploits we discussed have
their own code names, as listed above.
Despite our attempts, we couldn’t manage to trace back the full code names for these
exploits. However, the naming convention suggests that EpMo and EpMe are of the
same type or that they exploit vulnerabilities in the same module, just like the Eternal*
exploits (EternalBlue, EternalRomance, etc). This conclusion does make sense as our
single search query found both of these exploits.
When we analyzed the DanderSpritz NtElevation API, we found the checks that each
module deploys to declare that the exploit is indeed supported. When combined with the
original patch dates Kaspersky estimated for the two font exploits from the Houston Disk,
this new information helped us make a better estimate of the inner workings of each CVE
ID.
We thoroughly analyzed the found exploits and tried to match each exploit file to its
respective CVE-ID. These are the results of our analysis and our conclusions.