Executive summary
Background
The Health Service Executive (“HSE”) is a large
geographically spread organisation which provides all
of Ireland’s public health services through hospitals
and communities across the country. The HSE
consists of approximately 4,000 locations, 54 acute
hospitals and over 70,000 devices (PCs, laptops,
etc). Services are provided through both community
delivered care and care provided through the hospital
system as well as the national ambulance service.
Corporate services and other services that support
healthcare delivery are provided through the national
centre.
The HSE is the largest employer in the Irish state, with
over 130,000 staff including direct employees and
those employed by organisations funded by the HSE [1] .
It therefore comprises an extensive community who
are increasingly dependent on connected and reliable
Information Technology (“IT”) solutions and varying
levels of IT support from the HSE national centre
to deliver clinical services. This includes the HSE’s
national IT infrastructure. The HSE is classified as a
critical infrastructure operator under the EU Network
and Information Security Directive (“NISD”) [2], also
known as an Operator of Essential Services (“OES”).
Introduction to the Incident
In the early hours of Friday 14 May 2021, the HSE
was subjected to a serious cyber attack, through the
criminal infiltration of their IT systems (PCs, servers,
etc.) using Conti ransomware. The HSE invoked its
Critical Incident Process, which began a sequence of
events leading to the decision to switch off all HSE
IT systems and disconnect the National Healthcare
Network (“NHN”) from the internet, in order to attempt
to contain and assess the impact of the cyber
attack [3] . These actions removed the threat actor’s (the
“Attacker”) access to the HSE’s environment.
This immediately resulted in healthcare professionals
losing access to all HSE provided IT systems including patient information systems, clinical
care systems and laboratory systems. Non-clinical
systems such as financial systems, payroll and
procurement systems were also lost. Significant
disruption immediately occurred and many healthcare
professionals had to revert to pen and paper to
continue patient care. Healthcare services across
the country were severely disrupted with real and
immediate consequences for the thousands of people
who require health services every day.
Normal communication channels, both at HSE’s
national centre and within operational services
were also immediately lost. This included email
and networked phone lines. Staff switched to
communicating using mobile and analogue phones;
fax; and face to face meetings.
The aim of the Attacker was to disrupt health services
and IT systems, steal data, and demand a ransom for
the non-publication of stolen data and provision of a
tool to restore access to data they had encrypted.
The HSE initially requested the assistance of the
Garda National Cyber Crime Bureau, the International
Criminal Police Organisation (“Interpol”) and the
National Cyber Security Centre (“NCSC”) to support
the response. The ransomware created ransom notes
with instructions on how to contact the Attacker. The
Attacker also posted a message on an internet chat
room on the dark web, with a link to several samples
of data reportedly stolen from the HSE. The HSE and
the Irish Government confirmed on the day of the
attack that they would not pay a ransom [4] .
The Incident had a far greater and more protracted
impact on the HSE than initially expected, with
recovery efforts continuing for over four months. [5]
Growing threat of cyber attacks
Cybercrime is increasing in frequency, magnitude
and sophistication, with cybercriminals easily
operating across jurisdictions and country borders.
These incidents can cause major damage to safety
and the economy [6] . As outlined in Ireland’s National
Cyber Security Strategy, 2019-2024, “recent years
have seen the development and regular use of
very advanced tools for cyber enabled attacks and
espionage, and, likely for the first time, the physical
destruction of Critical National Infrastructure by cyber
enabled means” [7] . In April 2020, Interpol, warned
that cybercriminals were targeting critical healthcare
institutions with ransomware [8] .
1 Health Service Employment Report: August 2021
2 This occurred in July 2016. See NIS Compliance Guidelines for Operators of Essential Service
3 Conti Cyber Response NCMT Structures Governance and Admin V1.10 31052021
4 https://www2.hse.ie/services/cyber-attack/how-it-may-affect-you.html
5 Weekly Brief, 21 September 2021
6 https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_13_94
7 National_Cyber_Security_Strategy.pdf
8 https://www.interpol.int/en/News-and-Events/News/2020/Cybercriminals-targeting-critical-healthcare-institutions-with
ransomware
1 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ransomware attacks have risen significantly over the
last few years. Whilst precise figures on the number
of ransomware victims are not available, there are
statistics that indicate the rate of growth of these
attacks. For example, the US agency FinCEN’s [9]
analysis of ransomware-related Suspicious Activity
Reports (SARs) filed during the first half of 2021
indicates that $590 million [10] was paid in ransomwarerelated transactions (likely representing payments
originating from the US to ransomware groups),
which exceeds the value reported for the entirety of
2020 ($416 million).
Despite claims by ransomware groups that they
would not seek to harm people, there are several
recent examples of attacks against healthcare
providers. Hospitals including St. Lawrence Health
System (USA), Sonoma Valley Hospital (USA), and
Sky Lakes Medical Center (USA), all reported that
they were impacted by ransomware attacks in 2020.
On 20 May 2021, the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(“FBI”) identified at least 16 Conti ransomware
attacks targeting US healthcare [11] . Healthcare
organisations that have been the target of similar
attacks this year include, Waikato District Health
Board, New Zealand (May 2021), Eskenazi Health,
USA (August 2021), Memorial Health System, USA
(August 2021) and Macquarie Health Corporation,
Australia (October 2021). More recently, much of the
provincial healthcare system in Newfoundland was
impacted by a cyber attack (November 2021). The
ransomware attack against the HSE would appear
to be the first occurrence of an entire national health
service being impacted by such an attack.
Scope of our review
In June 2021, PwC was commissioned by the Board
of the HSE, in conjunction with the Chief Executive
Officer (“CEO”) and the Executive Management Team
(“EMT”), to conduct an independent post incident
review (“PIR”) to urgently establish the facts in relation
to the HSE’s technical and operational preparedness
for an incident of this nature; and to identify the
learnings from this Incident both for the HSE and
for State and non-State organisations to inform their
future preparedness. We initially undertook a scoping
phase, to develop our understanding of the Incident
and our approach to the review, followed by the PIR
engagement which was conducted over a 14 week
period.
We took a sample approach to review the
involvement of the hospitals and Community
Healthcare Organisations (“CHO”) within the HSE’s
community, focusing on how the HSE’s strategy was
implemented at tactical levels and the effectiveness
of the HSE’s coordination of efforts.
This is a complex PIR. In recognition of this
complexity, we brought together an experienced
multi-disciplinary team of international cybersecurity
and crisis management specialists. Our team
included forensic investigation and response, IT
/ cybersecurity, crisis management, culture and
behaviour, and regulatory experts with extensive
experience in cybersecurity PIRs.
Timeline of the Incident
On 18 March 2021, the source of the cyber-attack [12]
originated from a malicious software (“Malware”)
infection on a HSE workstation (the “Patient Zero
Workstation”). The Malware infection was the result
of the user of the Patient Zero Workstation clicking
and opening a malicious Microsoft Excel file that was
attached to a phishing email sent to the user on 16
March 2021.
After gaining unauthorised access to the HSE’s
IT environment on 18 March 2021, the Attacker
continued to operate in the environment over
an eight week period until the detonation of the
Conti ransomware on 14 May 2021. This included
compromising and abusing a significant number
of accounts with high levels of privileges (typically
required for performing administrative tasks),
compromising a significant number of servers,
exfiltrating data and moving laterally to statutory and
voluntary hospitals.
The Incident was not identified and contained until
after the detonation of the Conti ransomware on 14
May 2021, which caused widespread IT disruption.
There were several detections of the Attacker’s
activity prior to 14 May 2021, but these did not result
in a cybersecurity incident and investigation initiated
by the HSE and as a result opportunities to prevent
the successful detonation of the ransomware were
missed. The key events from 18 March 2021 to 14
May 2021 are set out in the diagram overleaf.
9 www.fincen.gov
10 https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/2021-10/Financial%20Trend%20Analysis_Ransomware%20508%20FINAL.pdf
11 https://www.ic3.gov/Media/News/2021/210521.pdf
12 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
2 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Figure 1: Summary Timeline 18 March - 14 May 2021
07/05/21
The Attacker compromised the HSE’s servers for the first time
08/05/21 to 12/05/21
The Attacker compromised six
voluntary and one statutory hospital
Hospital A and DoH proactively
prevented an attack on their networks
In the early hours of 14 May 2021, the HSE identified that they had been a victim of a cyberattack and they
began to mobilise a response, drawing on their experiences from previous crises, including COVID-19. The key
response and recovery events from 14 May 2021 are set out in the diagram below.
Figure 2: Summary Timeline 14 May - 21 September 2021
3 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
The HSE was assisted by the Defence Forces and
the NCSC as well as third parties in the early weeks
of the Incident, to provide structure to the response
activities. The response teams could not initially focus
on the highest priority response and recovery tasks
due to the lack of preparedness for a widespread
disruptive IT event e.g. through not having a preprepared list of prioritised clinical systems and
applications to focus their efforts.
On 15 May 2021, the HSE senior management set
up a war room at a third party’s office building on
Molesworth Street. On 20 May 2021, the Defence
Forces attended Molesworth Street for further
discussions around the level of support that was
required by the HSE during the response and
recovery phases of the Incident and on 21 May 2021,
the HSE set up a physical situation centre (“SitCen”)
in CityWest to manage the response and recovery.
The HSE engaged a third party Incident Response
organisation (“HSE’s Incident Response provider’’) to
investigate the cyber attack.
On 20 May 2021, the HSE secured a High Court
injunction [13] restraining any sharing, processing,
selling or publishing of data stolen from its computer
systems. On the same day, the Attacker posted a
link to a key that would decrypt files encrypted by
the Conti ransomware. The HSE’s Incident Response
provider validated that the decryption key worked
on 21 May 2021 and provided it to the HSE, allowing
them to gain access to the data that had been
encrypted by the Conti ransomware. Without the
decryption key, it is unknown whether systems could
have been recovered fully or how long it would have
taken to recover systems from backups, but it is
highly likely that the recovery timeframe would have
been considerably longer.
From 22 May 2021 onward, the HSE Information and
Communications Technology (“ICT”) team moved
from the response phase into the recovery phase,
where they focused their efforts on decrypting
systems, cleansing workstations, restoring
systems and the recovery of applications. The HSE
recovered their primary identity systems (
Active Directory (“AD”) domain) within days of the
Incident, but decryption of servers and acute and
community services applications took place largely
over the following three months. By 21 September
2021, the HSE had recovered all servers and 1,075
applications, out of a total of 1,087 applications [14] .
At the time of issuing this report, the HSE had notified
the Data Protection Commissioner (“DPC”) in relation
to the Incident, however, they have not made any
data subject notifications for personal data exposure
or exfiltration. The HSE’s Legal and Data workstream
continues to work closely with the DPC in relation to
this matter.
Mitigating factors impacting on the
Incident
There were a number of mitigating factors which had
a considerable effect in reducing the severity and
impact of the Incident.
Relative simplicity of the attack and the release of
the decryption key
Based on the forensic examination of the Attacker’s
activity, it would appear that the Attacker used
relatively well-known techniques and software to
execute their attack. A more sophisticated attack
may have involved gathering intelligence in advance,
before it could be successfully and subtly exploited.
The impact of the Incident on the HSE and health
services could have been significantly greater, with far
more severe clinical impact. Some examples of this
include, but are not limited to:
• if there had been intent by the Attacker to target
specific devices within the HSE environment (e.g.
medical devices);
• if the ransomware took actions to destroy data at
scale;
• if the ransomware had auto-propagation and
persistence capabilities, for example by using
an exploit to propagate across domains and
trust-boundaries to medical devices (e.g. the
EternalBlue exploit used by the WannaCry and
NotPetya [15] attacks);
• if cloud systems had also been encrypted such as
the COVID-19 vaccination system.
An additional mitigating factor was the release of the
decryption key by the Attackers on 20 May 2021,
which allowed for an accelerated recovery process.
It is unclear how much data would have been
unrecoverable if a decryption key had not become
available as the HSE’s backup infrastructure was only
periodically backed up to offline tape. Therefore it is
highly likely that segments of data for backup would
have remained encrypted, resulting in significant data
loss. It is also likely to have taken considerably longer
to recover systems without the decryption key.
13 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/publications/order-perfected-20-may-2021.pdf
14 Weekly Brief, 21 September 2021
15 https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/TA17-181A
4 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Significant ‘in-the moment’ efforts in response to
the Incident
A recurring theme observed throughout the PIR was
the dedication and effort observed at all levels during
the response to the Incident. This included individuals
from across the HSE, impacted hospitals, CHOs, and
third parties all going “above and beyond” in their
call of duty. This illustrates that, in times of significant
challenge or emergencies, staff in the health services
are resilient, respond quickly, and have an ability to
implement actions and workarounds to maintain even
a basic continuity of service to their patients.
National support
The impact of the Incident was at a national scale
which encouraged support and presence from other
state agencies and third parties, who provided
structure, governance, technical expertise and
resources to assist the response and recovery.
Lessons learned from COVID-19 and previous IT
disruptions
Whilst the HSE had not previously encountered
an incident of this scale, they have been exposed
to other significant incidents both directly (e.g
COVID-19) and through observations of ransomware
attacks on other healthcare organisations globally
(e.g WannaCry ransomware attack) over the past
five years. Each of these incidents highlighted key
learnings that have led to an improved level of crisis
management maturity within the HSE.
Strategic recommendations and
findings
The Incident demonstrated that the HSE and
organisations connected to the NHN are vulnerable
to common cyber attacks that can cause significant
impact to the provision of health services.
Transformational change is required across the
technology foundation for provision of health services
and its associated cybersecurity, that will need to be
executed over the coming years.
In order to deliver a significant and sustainable
change in the exposure to cybersecurity risk, four
areas of strategic focus are required across the HSE
and other parties connected to the NHN. There are
dependencies across these four areas and they need
to be progressed in parallel. They are summarised
below, with further detail provided in Section 4.1.
More detailed findings and recommendations are
provided in Section 5.
1. Implement an enhanced governance structure
over IT and cybersecurity that will provide
appropriate focus, attention and oversight.
1.1 Establish clear responsibilities for IT and
cybersecurity across all parties that connect to
the NHN, share health data or access shared
health services. Establish a ‘code of connection’
that sets minimum cybersecurity requirements
for all parties and develop an assurance
mechanism to ensure adherence.
One of the challenges faced by the HSE is that
cybersecurity risk materialises as a ‘common risk’
to all organisations connected to the NHN given
the interconnected nature of the IT systems. Under
the governance constructs of the health service,
organisations have varying levels of autonomy over
IT and cybersecurity decision making, yet the risk is
shared - with organisations dependent on each other
for cybersecurity. There is no ‘code of connection’
for all parties that connect to the NHN, share health
data or use shared services in order to set a minimum
baseline of security standards.
1.2 Establish an executive level cybersecurity
oversight committee to drive continuous
assessment of cybersecurity risk and a
cybersecurity transformation programme across
the provision of health services.
Within the HSE, there is no dedicated executive
oversight committee that provides direction and
oversight to cybersecurity, both within the HSE and
all organisations connected to the NHN. A known
low level of cybersecurity maturity, including critical
issues with cybersecurity capability, has persisted.
It is important that the cybersecurity oversight
committee includes participation from user groups,
so that culturally cybersecurity moves from being
perceived as an IT challenge, to being perceived
as ‘how we work’. The cybersecurity oversight
committee should be accountable for ensuring
compliance with the evolving requirements of the EU
NISD for essential services across the health service.
1.3 Establish an executive level oversight
committee for IT.
With a fragmented set of decision rights over IT
development and support across the provision of
health services, a necessary enabler for driving
transformational change will be the establishment
of an executive level committee, chaired by the
Chief Technology and Transformation Officer (see
Recommendation 2 below), that can agree the
priorities for IT development and investment, and
align all interested parties behind a clear vision,
strategy and plan. Critical to its success will be the
5 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
participation of IT leaders from across the health
service.
1.4 Establish a board committee (or repurpose
an existing one) to oversee the transformation
of IT and cybersecurity to deliver a future-
fit, resilient technology base for provision of
digitally-enabled health services, and ensure
that IT and cybersecurity risks remain within
a defined risk appetite. Consider the inclusion
of further specialist non-executive members
of the committee in order to provide additional
expertise and insight to the committee.
Cybersecurity was recorded as a ‘High’ risk in the
Corporate Risk Register in Q1 2019. [16] At the time
of the Incident, the risk rating for cybersecurity on
the Corporate Risk Register was 16, based on a
likelihood scoring of 4 (likely, with a 75% probability)
and an impact scoring of ‘Major’. [17] The HSE’s risk
assessment tool is described in Appendix H.
Risks on the Register are subject to a quarterly review
process and the quarterly reports are reviewed by
the relevant Board Committee. The Performance
and Delivery Committee of the Board reviewed the
cyber risk with management in September 2020 [18]
and this was followed by a revised mitigation
plan. The Committee includes two experienced IT
leaders in large organisations, although they are not
cybersecurity specialists. This revised mitigation plan
had a number of actions due to be completed post
the date of the Incident. The actions completed prior
to the Incident did not materially impact the risk faced
in this area.
The HSE’s IT-related risks had been presented at
Board level on a number of occasions. However,
the gravity of cybersecurity exposure was not fully
articulated to the Board, given the HSE’s level
of vulnerability to a cyber attack, or assessed
against a defined risk appetite. Known issues with
cybersecurity capability have made limited progress
over the course of several years.
Given the scale of change required across the
provision of health services, it is recommended that
a focused committee of the board is established,
with relevant training provided. Consideration
should be given to appointing additional individuals
to that committee with specialist skills to act in a
non-executive capacity and enhance the ability
for the committee to support and oversee the IT
and cybersecurity transformation. A key role for
the committee will be to ensure that HSE requests
for government funding (e.g. to the Department of
Public Expenditure and Reform (“DPER”)) to invest
in addressing IT and cybersecurity issues are clearly
articulated, and the risks associated with lack of
investment are communicated and understood.
2. Establish a transformational Chief Technology
& Transformation Officer (“CTTO”) and office
to create a vision and architecture for a
resilient and future-fit technology capability;
to lead the delivery of the significant
transformation programme that is required,
and to build the increased function that will
be necessary to execute such a scale of IT
change.
The national health service is operating on a frail IT
estate with an architecture that has evolved rather
than be designed for resilience and security. The NHN
is primarily an unsegmented (or undivided) network,
and can be described as a “flat” network, to make
it easy for staff to access the IT applications they
require. However, this design exposes the HSE to
the risk of cyber attacks from other organisations
connected to the NHN, as well as exposing other
organisations to cyber attacks originating from
the HSE. This network architecture, coupled with
a complex and unmapped set of permissions for
systems administrators to access systems across the
NHN, enabled the Attacker to access a multitude of
systems across many organisations connected to the
NHN and create the large-scale impact that they did.
The parts of the health service that were arguably
best-equipped to maintain clinical services in the face
of prolonged IT outages were those that rely on paper
records for patient services. Whilst this was a positive
feature in managing the Incident, it highlights the
extent to which modernisation is required across the
health service to enable the adoption of digital health
services.
Reducing cybersecurity risk requires both a
transformation in cybersecurity capability (see
recommendation 3) and IT transformation, to
address the issues of a legacy IT estate and build
cybersecurity and resilience into the IT architecture.
2.1 Appoint a permanent CTTO with the
mandate and authority to develop and execute
a multi-year technology transformation, build
an appropriate level of IT resource for an
organisation the scale of the HSE and oversee
the running of technology services.
The HSE has operated since the end of 2018 with
an interim Chief Information Officer with limited
16 Q1, 2019 CRR COMBINED Document for April LT meeting.pdf
17 CRR Q4 2020 Full Report post EMT meeting February 2021 v0.1 09 02 21.pdf
18 Minutes-hse-performance-and-delivery-committee-18-september-2020.pdf
6 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
practical mandate, authority and resources to effect
change across all organisations connected to the
NHN. The level of resourcing in critical IT functions
is significantly lower than we would expect for an
organisation of this size.
The CTTO should assume responsibility for all
capabilities that currently sit within the Office of the
Chief Information Officer (“OoCIO”), as well as a
broadened capability to drive rapid transformation.
The CTTO should be a member of the EMT reporting
to the CEO.
2.2 Under the office of the CTTO, develop an IT
strategy to achieve a secure, resilient and future-
fit IT architecture, required for the scale of the
HSE organisation.
The HSE has had a plan for the development of IT
that has been used to secure funding for individual
projects. However it has not been tied to a vision,
strategy and architecture that is deliverable over
a period of years and that provides the necessary
level of resilience through investment in enabling IT
architecture and fallback solutions in the event of
core technology failure. Many interviewees expressed
frustration with an apparent approach of investing
in ‘new projects’ or ‘new features’ rather than the
holistic delivery and maintenance of a technology
foundation for health service provision.
In order to deliver the transformation required, a
clear strategy is required that can be used to secure
commitment to execution across all organisations
involved in the provision of health services, and the
significant funding that will be required over many
years.
3. Appoint a Chief Information Security
Officer (“CISO”) and establish a suitably
resourced and skilled cybersecurity function.
Develop and drive the implementation of a
cybersecurity transformation programme.
The HSE has a very low level of cybersecurity
maturity (Section 5.3 of this report gives an
evaluation of maturity against the industry
standard “NIST CSF” framework). Examples of
the lack of cybersecurity controls in place at the
time of the Incident include:
• The IT environment did not have many of the
cybersecurity controls that are most effective
at detecting and preventing human-operated
ransomware attacks;
• There was no security monitoring capability
that was able to effectively detect, investigate
and respond to security alerts across HSE’s
IT environment or the wider NHN;
• There was a lack of effective patching
(updates, bug fixes etc.) across the IT estate
that is connected to the NHN; and
• Reliance was placed on a single antivirus
product that was not monitored or effectively
maintained with updates across the estate.
For example, the workstation on which the
Attacker gained their initial foothold did not
have antivirus signatures updated for over a
year.
The low level of cybersecurity maturity,
combined with the frailty of the IT estate,
enabled the Attacker in this Incident to achieve
their objectives with relative ease. The Attacker
was able to use well-known and simple attack
techniques to move around the NHN, extract
data and deploy ransomware software over large
parts of the estate, without detection.
3.1 Appoint a CISO and establish a suitably
resourced and skilled cybersecurity function
The HSE does not have a single responsible
owner for cybersecurity at either senior executive
or management level to provide leadership and
direction. This is highly unusual for an organisation
of the HSE’s size and complexity with reliance on
technology for delivering critical operations and
handling large amounts of sensitive data. As a
consequence, there was no senior cybersecurity
specialist able to ensure recognition of the risks
that the organisation faced due to its cybersecurity
posture and the growing threat environment.
The CISO should be at National Director level, a
direct report to the CTTO, and have appropriate
access to the EMT and their agenda, to ensure that
cybersecurity risks are understood and considered
in all decision-making. Whilst recruitment of a
permanent CISO may take some time, appointment
of an interim CISO should be considered in the short
term.
The HSE also had only circa 15 [19] full-time equivalent
(“FTE”) staff in cybersecurity roles, and they did not
possess the expertise and experience to perform the
tasks expected of them.
19 This comprises eight FTE within the Information Security Framework and Control team (two of which are students), the Security
Operations team of five FTE and the Security, Standard and Policies team of two FTE. Figures are based on interviewee assertion
and/(or) OoCIO Operating Model – 2020 Current State, December 2019.
7 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
A critical requirement for the HSE to begin to develop
the ability to prevent and detect a similar incident in
the future is the appointment of senior cybersecurity
leadership and the development of a suitably skilled
and resourced cybersecurity function. These skilled
resources are currently scarce and the HSE may need
to consider co-sourcing arrangements to support
resource requirements in this area.
3.2 Develop and drive the execution of a multi-
year cybersecurity transformation programme
to deliver an acceptable level of cybersecurity
capability for a national health service.
A multi-year programme to transform cybersecurity
capability in a holistic way is required to be led by the
CISO, to ensure that the provision of health services
in Ireland, and the data that those health services
handle, becomes less vulnerable to cyber attacks.
This programme will include the formalisation of
cybersecurity training and awareness.
Implement a clinical and services continuity
transformation programme reporting to the
National Director for Governance and Risk,
and enhance crisis management capabilities to
encompass events such as wide-impact cyber
attacks or large-scale loss of IT.
4.1 Implement a clinical and services continuity
transformation programme reporting to
the National Director for Governance and
Risk. Establish an Operational Resilience
Policy and Resilience Steering Committee to
drive integration between resilience-related
disciplines, and an overarching approach to
resilience.
The HSE has recognised that clinical and services
continuity (business continuity) as a risk discipline
has not developed at the pace needed with
executive oversight and focus. A National Director
for Governance and Risk (equivalent to a Chief
Risk Officer) was appointed on 14 June 2021, and
assigned responsibility for establishing a clinical and
services continuity framework, through which risk
management and continuity plans will be reviewed,
maintained and validated. Responsibility for clinical
and service continuity under the HSE’s accountability
structure will remain with operational and functional
managers. A programme and resource is required
to develop the consistency and breadth of planning
across the health service, including establishing clear
requirements for disaster recovery capability to be
implemented by the IT transformation programme,
and the mapping of clinical processes to IT systems
and data.
The HSE should establish an Operational Resilience
Policy and Steering Committee to drive integration
between resilience-related disciplines across the
organisation, such as incident management, crisis
management, clinical and services continuity and
enterprise risk management plus disciplines that
can impact on resilience such as cybersecurity and
physical security.
4.2 Enhance crisis management capabilities to
encompass events such as wide-impact cyber
attacks or large-scale loss of IT.
The HSE has extensive experience in managing
crises, for example in the critical role it has fulfilled
for the nation in navigating the COVID-19 crisis. This
has resulted in some effective mechanisms for crisis
management not just being designed, but regularly
used.
However, the nature of the crisis resulting from
the ransomware attack was different, and required
elements of capability that have not previously been
required. For example: communicating with all staff
in the health service without internal emails or other
IT collaboration tools; establishing a wide variety
of communication channels and forums to gather
information and feedback to prioritise recovery of
systems, and issuing clear guidance to all parties
impacted by the Incident that was relevant to their
localised situation.
The nature of a ransomware attack, resulting in
effectively total loss of IT, makes it particularly
challenging to manage with a unique set of issues
to be navigated. Investment is required in crisis
management planning, resourcing and tools and
processes in the HSE and associated organisations in
order to be prepared to manage this kind of crisis in
the future.
Tactical recommendations
Given the high risk of exposure at present, below are
tactical recommendations which require immediate
attention to achieve urgent impact and to contribute
to the development and implementation of the
strategic recommendations. These recommendations
are described in more detail in Section 4.2 of
this report. Further detail of key findings and
recommendations are included in Section 5 of this
report.
1. Response to the Incident
1.1. Complete the ongoing work being performed
by the Legal and Data workstream and
continue to work closely with the Data
Protection Commissioner (DPC).
8 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
1.2. Continue to reconcile medical data stored
and managed through interim processes
post the ransomware attack and place
centralised governance over these
activities.
1.3. Collate and manage artefacts created in
response to the Incident, including initial
production of an asset register.
1.4. Appoint an interim senior leader for
cybersecurity (a CISO) to be responsible
for driving forward tactical cybersecurity
improvements, managing third-parties that
provide cybersecurity services and leading
the cybersecurity response to cyber
incidents.
1.5. Formalise a programme and governance
to respond to tactical recommendations
arising from the Incident Response
investigation and provide assurance over
their implementation.
2. Security monitoring
2.1. Ensure that the HSE’s Incident Response
provider’s managed defence service or
an equivalent is maintained to detect and
respond to incidents on endpoints (i.e.
laptops, desktops, servers etc.) to provide
protection to the entirety of the NHN.
2.2. Establish an initial cybersecurity incident
monitoring and response capability to
drive immediate improvement to the ability
to detect and respond to cybersecurity
events.
3. Ability to respond to a similar incident in the
near future
3.1. Review the process for managing internal
crisis communications including resources.
3.2. Develop a plan for response and
management of an NHN-wide similar
incident taking recent learnings into account.
3.3. Establish retainers with appropriate service
level agreements (“SLAs”) for third party
incident and crisis management response
support, together with processes and
sufficient internal expertise to direct and
manage the third-parties
4. IT environment
4.1. Implement an upgrade to National
Integrated Medical Imaging System
(“NIMIS”) to allow Windows 10 upgrade,
20 HSE National Service Plan 2021
thereby addressing known vulnerabilities
and support issues associated with current
wide deployment of Windows 7.
4.2. Formalise existing roles and responsibilities
for IT across the entities accessing the
NHN and establish SLAs for centrallyprovided services, while also ensuring
information security policies align with
those responsibilities.
Next Steps
The seriousness of the deficiencies identified persist
and necessitate transformational change in the HSE
as well as immediate tactical actions. We recommend
that the HSE improve their cybersecurity, IT and
operational resilience governance, leadership and
capability, to allow them to stand up a remediation
programme to address our recommendations.
In 2021, the HSE had a combined revenue and capital
budget of nearly €22 billion, which included an IT
operating budget of €82 million and IT capital budget
of €120 million (including €25 million for Covid-19
capital spend) [20] . The HSE is currently estimating its
IT operating budget will increase to €140m and its
IT capital budget will increase to €130m in 2022.
Whilst it is outside the scope of the PIR to quantify
the incremental cost to the HSE of implementing the
recommendations set out in this report, it is clear
that it will require a very significant investment on an
immediate and sustained basis.
The HSE will need to develop an investment case
for this remediation programme, as the successful
implementation of the strategic and tactical
recommendations will be dependent on a well
resourced plan, against which funding will need to be
secured and progress tracked. This will be a complex
programme, with interdependencies between our
recommendations, and the programme will also need
to be highly integrated with existing project delivery
and business as usual operations. The investment
case will be complex to develop due to for example:
i) it can be challenging to segregate core IT spend
and cybersecurity investment (e.g. upgrading to
Windows 10 or Individual Health Identifier); ii) costs
to release and backfill service staff i.e. clinical and
operational subject matter experts who are critical to
complex e-health projects, will be a relevant cost of
the remediation programme and this will need to be
incorporated into the investment commitment; and iii)
a significant number of cybersecurity and clinical and
service continuity resources need to be put in place,
to deliver on the execution of the plan.
9 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
The cost of the remediation programme, in addition
to underlying technology and operational resilience
costs, is likely to be a multiple of the HSE’s current
capital and operating expenditure in these areas
over several years. Our recommendations need to
be developed into a prioritised plan, with tactical
recommendations implemented on an accelerated
basis. On the basis of this plan, cost estimates for
year one can be established with a reasonable level
of accuracy. Subsequently, within the first year, high
level cost estimates for years 2-5 can be estimated
(possibly over a longer duration, depending on
interdependencies with other change programmes).
Learnings for other organisations
A number of the vulnerabilities that the ransomware
attack highlighted are not unique to the HSE, and
issues identified in this report will be found in other
organisations. All organisations therefore need to
consider the extent to which they are protected from
a major cyber incident, and be prepared to respond
and recover should they experience such an event.
We have outlined these recommendations in Section
1 of this report.
Conclusion
While reviews of this nature tend to focus on what
went wrong to identify learnings, it is also important
to recognise that the Incident was caused by an
Attacker and the HSE was the victim of a cybercrime.
There was a considerable effort made by personnel,
including IT and operations personnel in HSE centre,
the hospitals and CHOs, and healthcare professionals
in all areas, to respond to the Incident, to recover
from the Incident and to continue to provide patient
care throughout the Incident. If this significant effort
had not been made by these people, the impact of
the Incident on the Irish public healthcare system
would certainly have been much worse.
The HSE is operating on a frail IT estate that has
lacked the investment over many years required to
maintain a secure, resilient, modern IT infrastructure.
It does not possess the required cybersecurity
capabilities to protect the operation of the health
services and the data they process, from the
cyber attacks that all organisations face today. It
does not have sufficient subject matter expertise,
resources or appropriate security tooling to detect,
prevent or respond to a cyber attack of this scale.
There were several missed opportunities to detect
malicious activity, prior to the detonation phase of the
ransomware.
The relative disadvantage in this Incident for
organisations who have greater dependency on
technology services, illustrates the critical need for
resiliency to be built into the IT architecture and
systems, to foster the confidence required to enable
future migration to more digital provision of health
services.
Emergency and crisis planning at the HSE previously
focused on scenarios such as adverse weather,
pandemic, serious accidents and terrorist action,
which generate a temporary surge in demand for
acute services. The assumption was that all critical
infrastructure and processes would remain available
to support the response. Similar to many other
organisations, the HSE did not conduct contingency
planning for a cyber attack or any other scenario
involving the complete loss of infrastructure,
people, or facilities. Clinical and services continuity
has not been a corporate priority in the HSE until
recently. In order to maximise the learnings from the
response to the Incident, the HSE must expand upon
initiatives already started, and implement a coherent
operational resilience capability, including clinical and
services continuity and crisis management, across
the organisation.
Reducing cybersecurity risk requires both a
transformation in cybersecurity capability and IT
transformation, to address the issues of a legacy
and complex IT estate and build cybersecurity and
resilience into the IT architecture. Whilst this will need
to be executed over a period of several years, there
is an imperative for the HSE to act with urgency to
ensure that the necessary plans, vision, leadership,
committed investment and resourcing are in place
to drive this significant change to build a secure,
resilient and future-fit technology foundation for
provision of national healthcare services. The required
investment commitment is likely to be a multiple of
the HSE’s current expenditure on technology and
operational resilience, but is essential to protect the
HSE against future attacks which are inevitable and
have the potential to be even more damaging.
The HSE, the State and non-State organisations now
have an opportunity to take the key lessons from this
major Incident to build a more robust and resilient
cyber frontier nationally.
The HSE remains vulnerable to cyber attacks similar
to that experienced in the Incident, or cyber attacks
that may have an even greater impact.
10 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.