CRITERIA FOR INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF STATE INVOLVEMENT
Campaigns conducted against dissidents and others inside Iran provide the most direct
evidence of government involvement. Whereas it can be difficult to trace the consequences of foreign espionage, for those on the ground the implications are more direct
and tangible. [62] As a pattern builds between cyber operations and the offline actions of
security forces, the relationship between both becomes clearer. [63] While these cases of collaboration are discernible in only a few threat actors, the patterns support a broader narrative around the intrusion ecosystem. [64] Indications that Iranians undertaking offensive
cyber operations are associated with the government include the following:
24     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
The campaigns have been conducted based on information that appears to have been
provided by security agencies. In certain cases, the campaigns have been carried out in
coordination with government employees and in advance of the arrest of the target.
The targets of such operations align with the sensitivities of the Islamic Republic,
and certain individuals are targeted repeatedly by multiple threat actors over time.

Persistent and costly campaigns have been sustained against thousands of targets
without an apparent financial motive and without clear indication of the end use of
the data obtained by intrusion.

In rare cases, potential ties to the government are even disclosed by the participants
themselves. A malware developer associated with the Rocket Kitten group, Yaser Balaghi,
was identified by name based on a pseudonym found in the malware’s code. In a résumé
from 2013, Balaghi listed past information security projects and a history of conducting
hacking projects under contract to an otherwise unnamed “cyber-organization.” [65] Balaghi
is not alone in listing his hacking activities on his résumé; still other pseudonyms embedded in malware code used against Saudi Arabia and internal dissidents can be associated
with LinkedIn profiles describing their experience as an “Information Security Researcher” with a “Secret” group.
To add a complication common in cybersecurity research, it is often difficult to distinguish commonplace electronic fraud from politically motivated disruptions and statesponsored surveillance efforts, especially where the attacks are not sophisticated. In at
least one case, Iranians that had staged persistent attempts against U.S. foreign policy
organizations and two European foreign ministries had also maintained infrastructure
linked with commercial banking fraud. [66] In another example, the same social engineering
skills used by an individual behind the Iranian Cyber Army defacements also proved successful in a career in the commercial theft of domains and PayPal fraud. More recently,
in an indictment against an Iranian accused of attempting to extort HBO with stolen
copies of unreleased television episodes in the summer of 2017, the U.S. Department of
Justice claimed that the same individual had worked on behalf of the Iranian government
to target military systems and Israeli infrastructure. [67]
Analyses of Iranian offensive cyber operations often rest on the country’s strict domestic controls as an indication of endorsement—that the government would not allow
something to happen that it didn’t want to occur. However, Tehran’s controls are not so
absolute, and many of the operations could occur surreptitiously given their simplicity.
Cyber activity emanating from Iran could theoretically be conducted without the state’s
sanction, consent, or even knowledge. Daily, millions of Iranians circumvent censorship
using antifiltering tools that allow them to bypass network restrictions and encrypt their
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    25
communications against surveillance. These tools provide space for Iranians to engage
in actions against the government without persecution, and similarly can conceal cyber
activities. Therefore, an Iranian origin does not alone indicate state sponsorship.
Nor does the financial damage resulting from an operation, the political implications of
the campaign, or the number of targets necessarily directly correlate with the probability
of government involvement. The destructive operations conducted against Saudi Aramco
resulted in millions of dollars in damages, yet the malware was unsophisticated and the
attack did not require significant resources, putting the incident plausibly within reach
of a sole individual acting without sponsorship. Such straightforward metrics of harm,
then, are poorly informative of the degree of governmental involvement in cyber activities originating from Iran.