Continued lateral movement, discovery, and intel gathering
After a month of continual discovery on compromised devices, the group moved laterally to a
server and copied over a malicious DLL that masqueraded as the system file mpr.dll and a
copy of the Sysinternals DebugView tool. They dropped the tool onto different devices using
SMB remote file copy, using file names related to popular Japanese video game characters
and a seemingly random word. The actors then registered and launched malicious services
multiple times, launching DebugView tool to connect to multiple Yahoo websites and
confirm Internet connectivity, followed by a connection to their C2 infrastructure.
At this point, BISMUTH switched to running their attacks using PowerShell, quickly
launching multiple script cmdlets. First, they dumped credentials from the Security Account
Manager (SAM) database using the Empire PowerDump command and then quickly deleted
PowerShell event logs to erase records generated by Script Block Logging. They then
continued their discovery efforts using a PowerShell script that gathered user and group
information and sent the gathered data to .csv files.
The script collected the following information about each user:
description, distinguishedname, lastlogontimestamp, logoncount, mail, name,
primarygroupid, pwdlastset, samaccountname, userprincipalname, whenchanged,
whencreated
And the following information about each domain group:
adspath, description, distinguishedname, groupType, instancetype, mail, member,
memberof, name, objectsid, samaccountname,whenchanged, whencreated
Next, the group exported directory forest and domain organizational unit (OU) information.
They then started connecting to dozens of devices using WMI. Following that, they collected
credentials by dumping security logs under Event ID 680, possibly targeting logs related to
NTLM fallbacks. Lastly, the group used the system tool Nltest.exe to gather domain trust info
and pinged multiple servers they have identified by name during reconnaissance. Some of
these servers appear to be database and file servers that could have contained high-value
information for espionage objectives typically pursued by BISMUTH.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-heres-how-to-spot-them/ 4/8
12/1/2020 Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them - Microsoft Security
BISMUTH then installed a Cobalt Strike beacon. The group dropped a .rar file and extracted
its contents— McOds.exe, which is a copy of the McAfee on-demand scanner, and a malicious
DLL—into the SysWOW64 folder. The group then created a scheduled task that launched the
copy of the McAfee on-demand scanner with SYSTEM privileges and sideloaded the
malicious DLL. This persistence mechanism established a connection to their Cobalt Strike
server infrastructure. To clean up evidence, they deleted the dropped McAfee binary.
In terms of targets for this campaign, there were some commonalities among targets located
in Vietnam that Microsoft has assessed to be tied to their previous designation as stateowned enterprises (SOEs). The observed BISMUTH activity in Vietnam targeted
organizations that included former SOEs previously operated by the government of Vietnam,
entities that have acquired a significant portion of a former SOE, and entities that conduct
transactions with a Vietnamese government agency. Although the group’s specific objectives
for these recent attacks cannot be defined with high confidence, BISMUTH’s past activities
have included operations in support of broader espionage goals.