Video Game Industry Targeting
APT41 continuously returns to targeting the video game
sector and seems to have matured its campaigns through
lessons learned in operations against the industry. We
believe these operations include broadly malicious
activity that can enable further operations, such as
targeting game source code and compromising digital
certificates, while other activities are explicitly financially
motivated, such as abusing in-game currency mechanics.
APT41 campaigns focused on the video game sector
have largely affected studios and distributors in East and
Southeast Asia, although global companies based in the
United States have also been targeted.
18 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION
§
§
The group leverages many TTPs during the targeting
of video game-related organizations, which are likewise
employed in their espionage operations.

Since at least 2012, APT41 has repeatedly gained access

to game development environments within affected
companies, including online multiplayer networks, as
well as targeting of production database administrators.
–
The group is competent in both Linux and Windows
environments and can pivot easily between
both environments within a single operation,
including compromising intermediary servers that
provide access to separated Windows and Linux
environments.
–
In October 2012, APT41 used captured credentials to
compromise a jump server and access a production
environment where they deployed a Linux version of
PHOTO. Based on the machines targeted, we have
some indication that APT41 specifically sought to
access production machines used in the development
of an upcoming online game.
–
In 2014, APT41 used a variant of SOGU that is capable
of connecting to Windows and Linux systems via SSH
and Samba/CIFS.
–
APT41 has been observed inserting malicious code
into legitimate video game files to distribute malware.
In 2018, the group inserted CRACKSHOT malware into
game files that were signed with legitimate codesigning certificates, most likely indicating access
to the production environment, which facilitated a
supply chain compromise.
§ § A highly similar incident in 2014 suggests that
APT41 (or a closely affiliated actor) has a history
of carrying out such operations against the video
game industry.
–
APT41's experience gaining access to production
environments may have been a precursor to more
recent supply chain compromises. The insertion of
malware into a build environment for later distribution
with legitimate software is a natural extension of
the group's earliest activities. Additional details are
provided in the section "History of Supply Chain
Compromises."

We have also observed APT41 limitedly deploy rootkits

on Linux systems and Master Boot Record (MBR)
bootkits, such as ROCKBOOT, on Windows systems to
hide their malware and maintain persistence on victim
systems. Selective deployment of ROCKBOOT suggests
that APT41 reserves more advanced TTPs and malware
only for high-value targets.
–
Bootkits are a stealthy means of installing malware
because the code resides outside of the OS. Because
bootkits are initialized prior to the OS and operate in
kernel mode, OS applications and security tools may
have great difficulty detecting bootkits.
–
The use of bootkits among threat actors, however,
is rare. It is more common for threat actors to rely
on techniques such as DLL search order hijacking
or modifying Windows registry keys to achieve
persistence.
–
The group used the Adore-NG rootkit on older Linux
operating systems to hide their Linux backdoor
ADORE.XSEC. Note that the Adore-ng rootkit is
no longer in development and would likely not run
successfully on modern Linux systems, but APT41
deployed this on a legacy game server.
APT41 is well-known for leveraging compromised digital
certificates from video game studios to sign malware. The
group has abused at least 19 different certificates in this
way. Additional details on code-signing certificates are
provided in the section "Use of Code Signing Certificates."

In 2012, APT41 used a code-signing certificate from

Mgame, a South Korean game publisher, against other
gaming industry entities. The serial number for this
§ certificate was:
```
     01:00:00:00:00:01:30:73:85:f7:02
```
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 19

A different Mgame digital certificate has been used

by several other Chinese operators, including APT17,
APT20, and APT31. It is unclear if this certificate
was compromised at the same time as the one used
by APT41 (or if it was stolen by APT41 and shared
with these other groups). The serial number for this
certificate was:
```
 4e:eb:08:05:55:f1:ab:f7:09:bb:a9:ca:e3:2f:13:cd
```
APT41 has blatantly engaged in financially motivated
activity targeting the video game industry, including
manipulating virtual currencies. These activities
demonstrate established connections to underground
marketplaces and familiarity with monetization and
laundering techniques.

Using its access to a game production environment, in

less than three hours the group generated tens of millions
of dollars of a popular game's virtual currency. The
money was credited to more than 1,000 accounts and
most likely sold and laundered in underground markets.

APT41 has targeted payment services specializing in

handling in-game transactions and real money transfer
(RMT) purchases.

In a highly unusual case, APT41 attempted to extort

a game company by deploying the Encryptor RaaS
ransomware. We suggest that APT41 sought to target
in-game currency but found they could not monetize
the specific targeted game, so the group resorted to
ransomware to attempt to salvage their efforts and
profit from the compromise.
– This ransomware was sold via a Ransomware-as
a-Service (RaaS) operation that was available via a
Tor (.onion) website. Users of the ransomware were
charged a 20 percent fee for any collected ransom.
–
Since this was not the group's typical method
of choice for collecting money from a victim
environment, it is possible that APT41 turned to a payfor-service ransomware to avoid having to develop
such a tool or set up the associated payment and
infrastructure associated with collecting the ransom.
–
APT41 attempted to deploy the ransomware through
a group policy (GPO) scheduled task. However, the
malware was unsuccessfully deployed because of a
simple typo.
–
Figure 7 shows the ransom note associated with
Encryptor RaaS, which contains default messages in
both English and German (the instruction links have
been redacted). Given that this is the default message,
the languages in the note should not be considered
when determining actor origin or location.
Figure 7:
Screenshot of
ransomware note.
ATTENTION!
The files on your computer have been securely encrypted.
To get access to your files again, follow the instructions at:
ACHTUNG!
Die Dateien auf Ihrem Computer wurden ischer verschluesselt.
Um den Zugriff auf Ihre Dateien wiederzuerlangen, folgen Sie der Anleitung auf :
20 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION