Fox Kitten Timeline
Fox Kitten operations during 2017-2020
The Pay2Key‘s ”Modus Operndi” was to execute a Ransomware attack, potentially to mislead the
victim. The attacker penetrates companies’ internal networks, encrypts servers and workstations,
steals and leaks information. Also, this actor conducts “supply chain attacks” by compromising
companies using accessibility or information that was obtained in breached companies. During
October and November, we observed a wave of cyber-attacks on industrial and insurance companies.
In November we observed a new wave of attacks on logistics companies. This figure summarizes the
timeline of the Pay2Key campaign in Israel between June and December of 2020.

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
3 | P a g e
Pay2Key operations between June 2020 – December 2020
We believe that this campaign is part of the ongoing cyber confrontation between Israel and Iran, with
the most recent wave of attacks causing significant damage to some of the affected companies . The
entry vector mostly consists of well-known vulnerabilities covered in our Fox Kitten reports throughout
the year. The attacks themselves or the abuse of successful attacks to compromise additional
companies or service providers were conducted using obfuscating means, making the discovery of the
attack more difficult.
We assess - with a medium level of confidence - that the Pay2Key campaign is aimed to create panic
in Israel. The ransomware group pay2key publicly threatened Israel, this might indicate that this
operation is only a propaganda campaign to cause fear and to divert attention from Fox Kitten. That
would explain the decision to leak the data instead of just demanding ransom. It can also explain why
this actor chose to leak the data via public social media platforms and to include threats directed at
Israel .
December Darknet Leak site by Pay2Key

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
4 | P a g e
December Keybase Leak site by Pay2Keyleaks
As mentioned before, we attribute the campaign to Fox Kitten (corresponding report published in
February [1] ) with a medium-high level of confidence.
About Fox Kitten
Last November, we located a malicious file that we associated with an Iranian operation that was
named “Parisite” by Dragos. In February 2020 we exposed the Fox Kitten group, an Iranian campaign
that targeted companies in Israel and around the world using dozens of distinct tools. Organizational
vulnerabilities are exploited to install multiple tools that will enable attackers to remotely connect to
the network and establish persistence for espionage and further infection (to other companies as well).
In August, the FBI published an alert regarding a new Fox Kitten capability. The group attacks a
plethora of targets in various sectors around the world, including in Israel. The information that the
group habitually exploits VPN vulnerabilities (such as Citrix or Fortinet) was familiar to ClearSky.
On September 15th, a CISA report regarding the Fox Kitten campaign was published with an FBI alert
uncovering new vulnerability exploitations by the same campaign. The report adds confirmation to the
previous report published by ClearSky in February, providing additional evidence that the perpetrator
was an Iranian attacker.
An additional report was released on September 15th, concerning the various web shells installed on
the target network (as reviewed in the Fox Kitten report). A number of public WSs utilized by the group
appeared in the report. The report also included FRPC configuration – FRP is a public remote
connection tool used by the group to create tunnels inside the attacked organization’s internal
network.
Analyzing the recent attacks conducted by the threat actor Pay2Key led us to the assess that there are
overlaps between Fox Kitten to Pay2Key. In the following chapter, we examine the tool set used by
Pay2Key group and compare it to Fox Kitten tool set. In the last chapter of the report, we provide a
detailed comparison between the two groups based both on technical and thematic analysis.
1 https://www.clearskysec.com/fox-kitten

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
5 | P a g e