Executive summary
In mid-October 2021 Kaspersky ICS CERT researchers uncovered an active ShadowPad
backdoor infection on industrial control systems (ICS) in Pakistan. Infected machines
included engineering computers in building automation systems that are part of the
infrastructure of a telecommunications company.
During the investigation researchers uncovered larger-scale activity by the threat actor in
the network of the telecommunications company and also identified other victims of the
campaign. We found malicious artifacts in organizations in the industrial and
telecommunications sectors in both Pakistan and Afghanistan. Moreover, another attack
was uncovered, using an earlier, but with very similar set of tactics, techniques and
procedures (TTPs), against a logistics and transport organization (a port) in Malaysia.
Apparently, the wave of attacks uncovered by the experts began in March 2021.
Some of the victim organizations were breached by exploiting the CVE-2021-26855
vulnerability in Microsoft Exchange.
During the investigation we found additional tools and commands used by the threat
actor after the initial infection.
From March to October 2021, the ShadowPad backdoor was downloaded to victim
computers as the mscoree.dll file, which was launched by AppLaunch.exe – a
perfectly legitimate application.
Later the attackers launched ShadowPad using DLL hijacking in a legitimate OLECOM object viewing application (OleView).
After the initial infection the attackers first sent commands manually, then
automatically.
Other tools were also used:
The CobaltStrike framework, which was downloaded to victim machines using
the certutil.exe utility, compiled aspx web shells, and procdump and Mimikatz
tools;
The PlugX backdoor;
BAT files (for stealing credentials);
Web shells (for remote access to the web server);
The Nextnet utility (for scanning network hosts).
https://ics-cert.kaspersky.com/publications/reports/2022/06/27/attacks-on-industrial-control-systems-using-shadowpad/ 1/14
6/28/22, 5:07 PM Attacks on industrial control systems using ShadowPad | Kaspersky ICS CERT
The attackers used domains registered with NameSilo, GoDaddy.com and ENOM to
communicate with the command-and-control (C2) servers. Most of the C2 servers were
hosted on dedicated servers rented from Choopa.
The newly identified attacks on a variety of organizations had an almost totally unique set
of TTPs, which leads us to believe that the same Chinese-speaking threat actor was
behind all of these attacks.
At the time of writing, we do not know the ultimate goal of the attacker. We think it was
probably data harvesting.
We believe that it is highly likely that this threat actor will strike again and we will find
new victims in different countries.
The full report is available on the Kaspersky Threat Intelligence portal.
For more information please contact ics-cert@kaspersky.com.