Ever-changing Malware
Malware is an important part of targeted threat actors’ arsenal. Different kinds of malware serve different
purposes and have different ways of functioning and communicating between the infected computers
and the C&C servers.
Threat actors targeting oil and gas companies for cyberespionage definitely want to stay undetected
inside their target’s network. Compromising and planting malware inside a target network is just the initial
stage for attackers. Yet for a number of reasons, these actions can be detected after a while or even just
deleted automatically by any antivirus or security solution.
To avoid being kicked off from the network when the only available access is via their malware, attackers
generally choose to regularly update their malware. And if possible, they use different malware families so
that they have more than one way to access the compromised network.
Malware updates can be functionality or code updates, or sometimes just slight modifications for avoiding
detection.
16 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
Cybercriminals working with malware often use online testing platforms like VirusTotal to check whether
their files are detected by different security products. Some threat actors run their own testing platforms
for better operational security reasons. They do not send their files to any third party and they want to be
sure the files are not known to security companies before a campaign starts to spread them in the wild.
Trend Micro has successfully collaborated with law enforcement to take some of these platforms down
(such as Scan4You [20 ] and Refud.me [21] ) and help catch the cybercriminals behind them.
Once a file has a “close to zero” or even zero detection rate, it becomes “FUD” (fully undetectable) and
it can be used in an attack. In order to alter the malware well enough to become undetectable, attackers
often use crypter software, which refers to programs that modify and obfuscate binaries to escape
detection. Attackers can also note the exact security products used by the target, and only consider
bypassing that one and not care about others.
In the next sections, we will discuss some of the most common malware types and tools that are used
against the oil and gas industry.