Narrative Overview – Supporting Information
The behavior analysis topic will be used to discuss a combined case studies related to SCADA systems and the sale of
SCADA hardware and associated software that could be spiked (loaded with malware). The case study would focus on
potential Russian activities in this area, their creation of fake companies, their duplication of websites and website content
to make them look legitimate, and the tracking of the potential people behind this to other malicious cyber activities.
“A new type of war has emerged, in which armed warfare has given up its decisive place in the achievement of the
military and political objectives of war to another kind of warfare - information warfare.”
Infiltrating systems in the deployment phase is attractive as this does not require the devices themselves to be vulnerable.
As SCADA systems generally are very poorly maintained, with patch penetrations bordering towards 0% when we have
been able to observe penetration on the market. The intentions apart from directly affecting those systems as means in a
conflict, they are often deployed on networks from where they can reach other internal resources. Being able to infect
devices which are likely to spend 10 to 20 years on a network largely unmaintained is one of the most stable sources of
persistence a threat actor can obtain. This means the devices not only provide means of controlling critical infrastructure
in other nations, but it is also a means of obtaining access to other internal resources for an extended period.
Take for example the BlackEnergy attacks against Ukrainian SCADA assets. Assumed Russian cyber adversaries disrupted
power grid operations causing blackouts for over 225,000 customers in Ukraine. The attack was highly complex using a
methodical approach to planning, direction, intelligence collection, resource utilization, mission management, expert
skills, highly malicious payloads, and combinations of manual, semi, continuous levels of automation.
Targeted intellection collection started months before the attack execution. Run like a well-managed special forces
operation, the adversaries clandestinely created persistent access footholds to multiple industrial networks, identified
Ukrainian energy-related targets, before carrying out an integrated, complex, and process-driven operation that disrupted
electricity distribution and destroyed various systems, flooded call centers, distorted internal systems, and impeded
incident response. Based upon system design and intelligence on the target, malware deployed by the adversaries
exploited weaknesses in access protocols to gain administrative access to critical systems. Once inside, adversaries created
valid administrative accounts enabling lateral movement across trusted systems. The adversaries achieved their goals by
shutting down power distribution to key functions of the grid.
Another possible aspect of exploiting SCADA systems starts at the physical level. Russian corporations are mimicking global
organizations that research and development, design, manufacture, and sale of electronic control systems, industrial
automation products, digital display products, communication products, consumer electronics products, energy-saving
lighting application, and energy technology (DLELY Key Statistics - Delta Electronics Inc., 2017) services. One such
organization is Delta Electronics from Taiwan.
The accelerating trends of supply chain globalization and outsourced manufacturing and distribution have combined to
increase the pace of change, complexity, and risk for brand owners. These trends have created a fundamental shift in the
way companies of all sizes plan, source, make, and deliver their goods and services. The Russian focus to actively target
various phases of the supply chain makes for malware installation to be viewed as normal network activity. An activity
that is deemed normal upon installation of the hardware and software in question.
Supply chains are difficult to secure; they create a risk that is hard to identify, complicated to quantify and costly to
address. A compromise anywhere in the supply chain can have just as much impact on your organization, and its
reputation, as one from within the organization. There is great necessity to track everything that is happening in the supply
chain as even the smallest supplier, or the slightest hiccup can have a dangerous impact on your business.
The cyber security industry has already seen USB-devices shipped with malware straight out of the factory, just as we have
seen CD's from magazines with malware during the 90's. Affecting devices in the production line is of course equally
tempting to actors from Russia as it is for the NSA. A state actor focusing on monitoring citizens has different requirements
from a nation building its cyber arms arsenal. Where the NSA had a focus on networking equipment and traffic monitoring,
this makes the same degree of sense from a cyber arms perspective.
Russian methods of information influence and information operations include network operations alongside disciplines
such as psychological operations, strategic communications, Influence, along with “intelligence, counterintelligence,
maskirovka, disinformation, electronic warfare, debilitation of communications, degradation of navigation support,
psychological pressure, and destruction of enemy computer capabilities. Taken together, this forms a whole of systems,
methods, and tasks to influence the perception and behavior of the enemy, population, and international community on
all levels.
One fundamental distinction between Russian and Western approaches to information activities is the categorization of
computer network operations and other activities in cyberspace.
“Cyber” as a separate function or domain is not a Russian concept. The delineation of activities in the cyber domain from
other activities processing, attacking, disrupting or stealing information is seen as artificial in Russian thinking. In this
context, “Distributed denial of services attacks (DDoS), advanced [cyber] exploitation techniques and Russia Today
television are all related tools of information warfare.
A key concept often lost on the West is Russia’s willingness to give primacy to non-kinetic operations, especially
information warfare. The Western assumption has been that subversion, deception, and the like are all ‘force multipliers’
to the combat arms, not forces in their own right. At present, though, Russia is clearly seeing the kinetic and the non
kinetic as interchangeable and mutually supporting.
Russia's use of the tools of information pressure - a key theme of the latest statements by the representatives of the state
administration sector in Ukraine. At the same time, Russia denies any involvement in the facts of information aggression:
hacking databases, network services and the use of information technology for propaganda purposes.
The Russian targeting of various phases of the SCADA supply chain represents information-technology warfare (to affect
technical systems which receive, collect, process and transmit information), which is conducted during wars and armed
conflicts. The behaviors exhibited by the perpetrators is not usually targeted. Examining Russian activities within the
SCADA supply chain requires analysis focused on users, user accounts, user identities, and the sources of their activities.
Openly selling to various Western, Asian, and Middle Eastern energy organizations who purchase from these known
companies is a method to infiltrate critical infrastructures in target organizations globally. The potential for use later is
part of an overall sea, air, land, cyber integrated strategy of hybrid warfare.
This is but one aspect of hybrid warfare attacks against the energy sector. The use of malicious code such as BlackEnergy
serves as a reminder of the combined efforts by adversaries in using access to hardware in the supply chain and external
infiltration of this hardware without attribution. Since the December 2015 attack against Ukraine’s power grid, the Ukraine
has experienced 6,500 cyber hacks to state institutions in November and December 2016 alone. Ukraine has accused
Russia of these cyber-attacks, but Moscow has denied involvement. A standard behavior of non-attributable, hybrid
warfare. (Douris, 2017)