REELED IN—PHISHING LOGS ANALYSIS
As reported so far, the attackers persistently e-mailed, called and responded with fake identities, tailored for each victim. The
attackers clearly read the public reports about them, respond and adapt their tactics, occasionally showing a creative mindset.
In one reported case, the attacked posed under the true identity of a ClearSky researcher, referencing the recent Rocket Kitten
report, attaching “detection software” that does exactly the opposite. This an interesting tactic, worthy of mentioning in social
engineering classes. It would be wise at this point to mention that the release of report does not include any accompanying
detection or protection tools other than the existing Check Point software blades. If you received this report with an attached
executable, it is likely a malicious lure.
In another case, the attackers sent a malicious attachment using the identity of a previously known targeted victim. The Israeli
recipient of that attachment was wary enough to suspect the origin of the e-mail and responded with a query: “Is that you or are
the Iranians in your computer again?” To which the attackers responded (in perfect non-Google-Translate Hebrew): “The Iranians
will never return to my computer!”
That very well may have been the talk of the day at the Tehran operations center, possibly featured in an email printout in the main
dining room.
As the Rocket Kitten group’s behavior was well characterized in previous publications (see the recent report from Trend Micro
and ClearSky). We will focus on new insights based on our analysis of the ‘Oyun’ system victim database. We understand that this
database contains a partial view, starting August 2014 to August 2015. While the data can be successfully correlated with logs
collected from other servers, we have no visibility of e-mails with malicious attachments (as opposed to phishing links to steal
credentials), or any complete web hacking log for attacker activity.
The sheer volume of the target database suggests an extensive operation, the work of a group of people over months. The logs
included the visiting IP address geo-located country. Our analysis shows the following distribution:
United Arab Emirates 1%
1%
Afghanistan
2%
United Kingdom
3%
Chart 1—Phishing visitors’ country distribution
We have studied the visitor data to determine this includes many attacker accesses to test the site functionality. We know the
attackers used addresses from Iran, as well as VPN access from the US, Germany, Saudi Arabia and the Netherlands. The data
must be interpreted taking these facts into consideration.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  25
Our primary filtering dismissed around 25% of logs and 15% of projects as ‘test runs’ for the system. The following is based on the
remaining seemingly valid entries.
Charting the phishing logs over time, we can observe the following timeline:
Visited Phishing Site
Entered Credentials
Chart 2—Phishing logs and successes over time
We can study this data to make a few interesting observations:


On average, all phishing pages on this server had 26% success in fooling victims to enter their credentials. These are
surprisingly high results, potentially attributed to persistency and well-targeted e-mails.


On May 26, 2015, there is a unique peak of access to the site, with minimal successes. When analyzed, these accesses appear
mostly in 3 batches over periods of minutes, with incremental ‘project_ids’ and no data provided, from Israeli IP addresses.
We can safely discard these as researcher probes, attempting to ‘brute-force’ phishing pages, immediately preceding the
ClearSky June publication.


The attackers seem to have shut down their platform on June and July (likely due to the publication) and resumed operations
during August. We found evidence to suggest the database had been migrated from a previous server.


Slicing the projects table by user_id allows a unique internal look on operator assignment; while our target analysis is far from
conclusive, we can share a reserved primary assessment of what each user was tasked with:
User Projects Target Profile
admin 83 projects strictly system testing
this is one of the prominent users in the system, tasked with all around mixed targets—focused on Saudi Arabia, many human rights
anonymous 522 projects
activists, CEOs and ministry officials.
assigned with all Israeli targets, notably including known physics and nuclear scientists, former military officials, national security
merah 147 projects
and foreign policy researchers. This operator is probably a fluent Hebrew speaker.
kaveh 57 projects very little activity—mostly testing and some Venezuelan targets.
one of the two busiest operators, in 2014 he targeted a vast amount of Saudi scholars and persons of influence, and later listed
ahzab 691 projects
education and media outlets in Saudi Arabia.
124 & attache 233 projects
these users both showed clear targeting of defense sector victims, as well as embassies of Iran’s neighboring countries and
others. Quite fitting with one of their usernames, they listed several military attachés in their victim list. Notable targets include
representatives from the United Arab Emirates, NATO and other regional posts in Afghanistan as well as Thailand and Turkey.
During late 2014 he was directly tasked with Venezuela trade and finance targets, later in 2015 he moved to former Iranians living
john 108 projects
abroad—listing professors, scientists, journalists and investors
Despite our limited visibility, we can confirm many of these attacks were successful—the attackers gained confidential information
from various targets all around the world.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  26