Venom distribution network
Since at least September 2012, Symantec has identified 84 websites compromised by the Waterbug group. The
chosen websites receive visitors of potential interest to the attackers—this is an example of a watering-hole
attack. However, unlike traditional watering-hole attacks, where all visitors to a particular website are targeted
indiscriminately, in the case of the Venom network used by the Waterbug group, the attackers use a more
deliberate approach. This is done in a multi-staged fashion by firstly redirecting visitors to another malicious
server. On the malicious server, a fingerprinting script is executed and this extracts configuration information
from the user’s computer related to installed bowser plugins (Adobe Reader, Silverlight, Java, Flash etc.). The
attackers also collect basic system and network information, such operating system version, type, browser
version, and internet protocol (IP) address.
At this point, the attackers have enough information to determine if the visitor is of further interest. When an IP
address of interest is identified, such as one associated with a government institution, they proceed to create
a rule specific to that IP address. This rule ensures that the next time the visitor arrives on the compromised
website their computer may be sent a malicious payload instead of just being fingerprinted.
One of the techniques that the attackers used to install the malicious payload is to attempt the installation
of a Trojanized version of Adobe Shockwave. This malicious installer contains Trojan.Wipbot. Similarly,
Symantec has also observed packages which have been used to drop both Trojan.Turla and Trojan.Wipbot.
It is believed that Trojan.Turla is also dropped in tandem with Trojan.Wipbot in order to provide multiple
communication channels as a
failsafe when interacting with
the compromised computer.
Symantec has also observed the
attackers using Trojan.Wipbot
to download updated versions
of Trojan.Turla after initial
infection.
Once the attackers have gained
a foothold in the network, they
use Trojan.Turla to collect and
exfiltrate data to a first-tier
proxy. This tier is comprised of
legitimate, but compromised,
websites. In a similar fashion,
data is relocated from the
first-tier proxy to a second-tier
proxy server under the control
of the attackers. This is done
to increase the complexity of
the attacker’s infrastructure
and to make it more difficult to
identify.
Figure 2.Trojanized Shockwave installer package
Page 6
The Waterbug attack group