Persistence through regularly scheduled malware updates
The two monitoring services simultaneously check the status of all three malicious processes.
Having dual monitoring services provides redundancy in case one of the monitoring processes is
halted. If any of the processes are terminated, the monitors immediately identify the situation,
terminate all remaining malicious processes, and re-infect the device. This forced update/reinfection process is started by a PowerShell command similar to the one below:
The monitoring components also detect freshly launched cmd.exe processes and terminate them
promptly. As a final fail-safe, Dexphot uses schtasks.exe to create scheduled tasks, with the
command below.
This persistence technique is interesting, because it employs two distinct MITRE ATT&CK
techniques: Scheduled Task and Signed Binary Proxy Execution.
The scheduled tasks call msiexec.exe as a proxy to run the malicious code, much like how
msiexec.exe was used during installation. Using msiexec.exe, a legitimate system process, can
make it harder to trace the source of malicious activity.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2019/11/26/insights-from-one-year-of-tracking-a-polymorphic-threat/ 5/10
11/27/2019 Insights from one year of tracking a polymorphic threat - Microsoft Security
Furthermore, the tasks allow Dexphot to conveniently update the payload from the web every
time the tasks run. They automatically update all of Dexphot’s components, both upon system
reboot as well as every 90 or 110 minutes while the system is running.
Dexphot also generates the names for the tasks at runtime, which means a simple block list of
hardcoded task names will not be effective in preventing them from running. The names are
usually in a GUID format, although after we released our first round of Dexphot-blocking
protections, the threat authors began to use random strings.
The threat authors have one more evasion technique for these scheduled tasks: some Dexphot
variants copy msiexec.exe to an arbitrary location and give it a random name, such as
%AppData%\.exe . This makes the system process running malicious code a literal
moving target.