Report Overview
Page 5
The purpose of this report is to share actionable threat intelligence associated with an advanced adversary the RSA IR Team
is tracking. Threat intelligence related to advanced adversaries enables security practitioners to mitigate threat impact
before the adversary becomes entrenched in an organization’s infrastructure. If a breach has already occurred, threat
intelligence bolsters incident investigation activities and expedites remediation; ultimately reducing exposure times and
minimizing potential data loss.
During recent engagements, the RSA IR Team has responded to multiple incidents involving a common adversary targeting
each client’s infrastructure and assets. The RSA IR Team is referring to this threat group internally as “Shell_Crew”;
however, they are also referred to as Deep Panda, WebMasters, KungFu Kittens, SportsFans, and PinkPanther amongst the
security community.
Shell_Crew is generally known to utilize the following tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs);


Prevalent use of Web shells to maintain low level persistence in spite of determined remediation efforts;


Occasional use of Web application framework exploits to achieve initial entry as opposed to traditional


spearfishing attempts;

Lateral movement using compromised credentials with RDP, psexec, or network connections in conjunction with

scheduling jobs with the “at” command.


Abuse of Code Signing infrastructure to validly sign custom backdoor malware;


Exploiting systems using different SETHC.exe methods accessible via Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP);


Long history of IP/DNS telemetry allowing for historical research and link analysis;


Placement of malicious proxy tools introduced into the environment on Windows server based proxies to bypass


proxy logging;


Extensive use of time/date stomping of malicious files to hinder forensic analysis; and


Malware leveraging compromised credentials to bypass authentication NTLM proxies (proxy aware).


This emerging threat profile covers a sampling of observed indicators that have been derived by analyzing a variety of tools
and malicious code collected during recent engagements involving Shell_Crew. Included are details about an observed
intrusion vector, entrenchment techniques, unique malicious files, and tools that are used by this adversary. Additionally,
the RSA IR Team has provided content in the form of a digital appendix that can be integrated into Security Analytics, the
Enterprise Compromise Assessment Tool (ECAT), or other security tools for rapid detection and visibility of indicators
associated with Shell_Crew.
RSA Emerging Threat Profile: Shell_Crew
RSA Incident Response