2 Executive Summary
Solarmarker is a multi-stage, heavily obfuscated malware targeting thousands of victims
globally. Although security researchers identified Solarmarker as early as September 2020,
the threat actors responsible altered their approach to malware execution in September
2021 . They changed several installation steps, such as the initial point of entry in MSI
installation files, making this advanced persistent threat even more dangerous.
After a careful examination of malicious activity in a client’s infrastructure, the PTI Team
started investigating Solarmarker and gained access to the attacker’s C&C infrastructure,
the center of the crime operation. Subsequent analysis of Solarmarker victims revealed that
the campaign captured 200,000 victim credentials from around 12,000 victim devices in the
United States and Canada. 88.4% of these devices are located in the United States while
10% are located in Canada. Other countries constituted the remaining 1.6% of the total.
Analysis of exfiltrated data shows that the majority of targets are high-profile individuals such
as government officials and executives of private organizations. During the investigation,
the PTI team was able to collect multiple artifacts from the crime group spearheading
the Solarmarker campaign. The details of the investigation, including victim statistics and
relevant observations, are provided in this report.
Our research makes it clear that the cybercrime group behind Solarmarker is persistent and
highly sophisticated. The underlying malware operated and evolved for an entire year without
being detected, and would have led to headline-making data breaches and extortion
attacks if our team, in cooperation with authorities, had not de-anonymized the group’s
command and control infrastructure.
4 / 27
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without providing
any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report nor any of
its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE Solarmarker In-Depth Analysis