RUSSIA
↘
While there may be
some tactical-level
changes to Russian
operations in the short
term, adversary action
was not significantly
deterred overall in 2020.
Throughout 2020, the activities of several Russian-nexus adversaries, particularly
state-operated groups, were the subject of public disclosure through the release of
statements made by Western government organizations. The quantity and breadth
of information released regarding Russian intrusion operations is unprecedented and
likely reflects a focused effort to disrupt these activities by enabling defenders and
using “soft messaging” techniques designed to influence adversary behavior.
While there may be some tactical-level changes to Russian operations in the short
term — for example, CrowdStrike Intelligence has observed a continued reduction
in malware-driven FANCY BEAR operations, as well as ongoing development of
VENOMOUS BEAR tooling — adversary action was not significantly deterred
overall in 2020. BERSERK BEAR demonstrated significantly elevated targeting of
Western organizations during 2020, mainly driven by campaigns that have been
observed throughout the year against government and transport sectors in North
America. Meanwhile, PRIMITIVE BEAR maintained their Ukrainian-centric interest,
with sighting of regular activity targeting Ukrainian government and official bodies.
This actor demonstrated significant maturation with their attempts to improve their
operational security, tradecraft and tooling.
TTP Highlight: Targeting VPN Connections
A common initial network compromise TTP observed across multiple Russian
adversaries in 2020 was attempting to gain access to targets through the exploitation
of internet-accessible network devices and services, particularly those supporting
virtual private network (VPN) connections. These techniques have the benefit of being
relatively covert if the attempts fail, but can yield extensive access if they succeed. It
is worth noting that much of the reported exploitation activity against these devices
target previously patched vulnerabilities, and therefore it is possible that future
intrusions may be supported by the exploitation of zero-day vulnerabilities if target
networks are found to be hardened against an adversary’s current capability.