Phishing
In all their phishing lures the actor has used its loader to spawn a combination of Octopus and Koadic (there
were only a few cases with Koadic only). We were able to identify several different variants of this loader:
executable, batch, VBScript, and registry files (in which persistence is achieved by writing a PowerShell script
into the AutoRun registry key). We named this new loader as KOCTOPUS .
This group also has used another loader around 2018 and 2019 to load PowerShell Empire. We named this
loader Empoder .
As a phishing lure they mainly used either IATA- or job-related themes to target victims. However, we have
observed several other phishing lures that have been used by this actor. Here are some of them:


IATA security (International Air Transport Association security)


BSPlink Updater or Upgrade (BSPlink is the global interface for travel agents and airlines to access the
IATA Billing and Settlement Plan (BSP)).


IATA ONE ID


User support kits for IATA users


Tourism (UNWTO)


COVID-19


Microsoft Updates


Job information


Canada skill worker program


Canada Visa (CanadaVisa.com is the online presence of the Campbell Cohen Immigration Law Firm)


Another interest of this actor is targeting people that want to immigrate to Canada through government jobrelated programs. In one of the specific cases the actor has used the legitimate "Canadavisa.com" site as its
phishing lure. Canadavisa is a known Canadian immigration website associated with an immigration firm
based in Montreal, Canada.
This actor has mainly used spam emails weaponized with either archive or document files as it is initial
infection vector. Both zip and document files contain a variant of either KOCTOPUS or Empoder and in some
cases they are password protected.
The actor has mainly used two GitHub accounts to host its toolsets. Both of these accounts were deleted on
Jan 12 and 14 2021, respectively.


https://github[.]com/Axella49


https://github[.]com/LIZySARA


5
Figure 1: GitHub account belonging to threat actor
The actor created a new GitHub account on Feb 2nd 2021 to host its payloads to operate its new spam campaign:
Figure 2: New GitHub repository