On the hunt for credentials
Thirty percent of all data stolen in attacks on organizations were credentials, an increase from
15 percent in Q1. Corporate credentials are the most valuable kind of information for attack
ers. Criminals sell them on the darkweb or use them for further attacks, such as imitating the
hacked company to send emails with malicious attachments. Databases with credentials of
hacked companies' clients are also in high demand.
15% 14%
29%
Online services Science and education
11%
3%
Retail
Hospitality and entertainment
IT
Manufacturing and industry
© Positive Technologies
Healthcare
Finance
Other
Multiple industries
3% 5% 5% 7% 8%
Figure 19. Categories of victims of credential compromise (in attacks on organizations)
Figure 20. Advertisement for corporate credentials on the darkweb
12
Figure 21. Advertisement for SSH access to a SIP telephony operator
Here we will review the most common scenarios of credential compromise attacks performed
in Q2 2020.
1. Hacking of web resources and theft of credential databases. In Q2, attackers primarily
targeted online services, e-shops, and service sector companies. In most cases, they ex
ploited web vulnerabilities or bruteforced passwords to access websites. For example, the
Shiny Hunters group posted an advertisement on the darkweb offering the databases of
dozens of companies. Among the victims were e-learning platform Unacademy, The Daily
Chronicle news website, the Knock CRM platform, and many others. A single database gen
erally costs between $1,000 and $2,000. However, the database of online store Tokopedia,
containing information for 91 million accounts, was offered on a darkweb market for $5,000.
2. Phishing emails with links to fake authentication forms. Most often, attackers forge the
authentication forms of Microsoft products, such as Office 365, Outlook, and SharePoint.
However, at the peak of the pandemic in Q2, they also tried to steal credentials for audio and
videoconferencing platforms. In one such case, attackers deployed a phishing campaign
against remote employees using Skype, sending them emails with fake Skype notifications.
By clicking a link in a phishing email, the victims landed on a fraudulent login page and were
asked to provide their credentials. Similar attacks hit users of Webex and Zoom.
3. Infection with credential-stealing malware. In most cases, it suffices for employees to
merely open a malicious phishing attachment to get their company infected with malware.
Lately, in the footsteps of cybergroups, ransomware operators have also started hunting for
credentials. In Q2, Zaha Hadid Architects became a victim of Light ransomware. The crimi-
nals stole a large number of internal files and compromised employees' accounts.
Figure 22. Fake Outlook login form used in a phishing attack against Turkish military vehicle manufacturer Otokar
13
4. Bruteforcing of credentials to services on the network perimeter. In the first two quarters
of 2020, such attacks have become especially relevant due to the global workforce’s shift
to remote work, which made some services accessible from the Internet for the first time. In
April, cybersecurity specialists observed an increasing number of attacks across the globe
aimed at bruteforcing RDP credentials. In order not to fall victim to such attacks, it is vital
to use strong passwords and multi-factor authentication, as well as enable RDP connec
tions only over corporate VPNs. If you do not use RDP, we recommend closing port 3389.
Specially configured SIEM correlation rules help to detect bruteforce attacks on corporate
remote access systems in time.
Figure 23. Credential compromise incident (MaxPatrol SIEM interface)