Operation Eagle Eye
securifera.com /blog/2021/06/24/operation-eagle-eye
b0yd
This article is in no way affiliated, sponsored, or endorsed with/by Fidelis Cybersecurity. All graphics are being
displayed under fair use for the purposes of this article.
Who remembers that movie about 15 years ago called Eagle Eye? A supercomputer has access to massive
amounts of data, introduce AI, things go to crap. Reflecting back on that movie, I find myself more interested in
what a hacker could actually do with that kind of access rather than the AI bit. This post is about what I did
when I got that kind of access on a customer red team engagement.
https://www.securifera.com/blog/2021/06/24/operation-eagle-eye/ 1/20
6/24/2021 Operation Eagle Eye – Securifera
Being a network defender is hard. Constantly trying to balance usability, security, and privacy. Add too much
security and users complain they can’t get their job done. Not enough and you open yourself up to being
hacked by every script kiddie on the internet. How does user privacy fit in? Well as a network defender your first
grand idea to protect the network against adversaries might be to implement some form of network traffic
inspection for “malicious” activity. This might have worked 20 years ago, but now most network protocols at
least support some form of encryption to protect users’ data from prying eyes. If only there was a way to
decrypt it, inspect it, and then encrypt it back… Let’s call it break and inspect.
The graphic above was pulled from an article from the NSA, warning about break and inspect and the risks
introduced with its usage (I’d be inclined to heed the warning since the NSA are likely experts on this particular
topic) . The most obvious risk introduced by break-and-inspect is clearly the device(s) performing the operation.
Compromise of these devices would provide an attacker access to all unencrypted traffic traversing the
network.
https://www.securifera.com/blog/2021/06/24/operation-eagle-eye/ 2/20
6/24/2021 Operation Eagle Eye – Securifera
All of this lead up was meant to describe what I can only assume happened with one of our customers. After
years of assessments, I noticed one day that all outbound web traffic now had a custom CA certificate when
visiting websites from the customer network. This was a somewhat natural progression as we had been utilizing
domain fronting for some time to evade network detection for our C2 domains. In response, the network
defenders implemented break-and-inspect to identify traffic with conflicting Host headers. As a red teamer, my
almost immediate thought was, W hat if we could get access to the break-and-inspect device ? Being able to sift
through all unencrypted web traffic on a large network would be a goldmine. Operation Eagle Eye began…