The monetary in- vestment required to collect and deploy zero-day exploits at this level is considerable.

Tools . Some of the tools used by PLATINUM, such as the port-knocking
backdoor, show signs of organized thinking. PLATINUM has developed or
commissioned a number of custom tools to provide the group with access to victim resources. This
behavior exhibits PLATINUM’s ability to adapt to victim networks, which is further evidence of the
group’s considerable resources for development and maintenance.

Any of these traits by themselves could be the work of a single resourceful attacker or a small
group of like-minded individuals, but the presence of all of them is a clear indication of a wellresourced, focused, and disciplined group of attackers vying for information from government
related entities.
Guidance
PLATINUM is an extremely difficult adversary for targeted organizations to defend against. It possesses
a wide range of technical exploitation capabilities, significant resources for researching or purchasing
complicated zero-day exploits, the ability to sustain persistence across victim networks for years, and
the manpower to develop and maintain a large number of tools to use within unique victim networks.
Their ability to research their victims prior to targeting them, along with the capability to architect
exploits that only work once or for a short period of time, makes it very difficult to investigate or track
their activities. That said, there are steps that organizations can take to reduce the likelihood of
PLATINUM conducting successful attacks against their employees and networks.
Take advantage of native mitigations built into Windows 10. Newer versions of Windows include
critical mitigations that render some of PLATINUM’s exploits ineffective when deployed. For
example, the summer 2015 attack that used the unusual ‘resume’ would not have been successful
on Windows 10 as-is because of the presence of the Supervisor Mode Execution Prevention (SMEP)
mitigation, even without the latest security updates installed. Even if CVE-2015-2546 affected
Windows 10, the exploitation would have required much more technical prowess to succeed;
ultimately, SMEP makes it more difficult for attackers. The hooking and in-memory patching
techniques used by the malicious ‘hot patcher’ component are also not effective against newer
versions of Windows.
Apply all security updates as soon as they become available. Microsoft deeply researches each
security issue, proactively addresses the flaw, and mitigates the attack surface around the affected
component(s). For example, one zero-day vulnerability exploit (CVE-2015-2545) used by
PLATINUM was addressed immediately in September 2015. Subsequently, in November, Microsoft
also released a proactive security update for the same component that ended up mitigating other
exploits surfacing in-the-wild after the first attack. Customers who applied the security updates in
November without delay would have been protected against the second wave of exploits. Such
measures of hardening the underlying application happen often. MS09-017 is yet another example,
in which installation of newly available security updates significantly reduced the attack surface.
Consider disabling features, such as EPS or macros, in powerful products like Microsoft Office by
using Group Policy. Not all organizations find the need to enable all features. For example, in the
PLATINUM attack campaign that used CVE-2015-2545, a network in which Office EPS was disabled
would not have been affected.
Enterprise networks should segregate high business impact (HBI) data-holding segments from
Internet-connected networks. Sharing of removable media between these air-gapped networks
should be strictly enforced. In the case of PLATINUM, such a network architecture would prevent
targeted users from accessing third-party email services and thereby granting attackers access to
sensitive segments of the organizational network.
Conduct enterprise software security awareness training, and build awareness of malware
prevention. PLATINUM may have used zero-day flaws to compromise victim computers, but doing
so required action by the user, who either clicked a link in an email or opened an attachment to
allow the attacker to take control of their computer. Security training can raise
awareness and reduce the risk associated with this attack vector.
Institute a strong network firewall and proxy. Many tools used by attackers are
not compatible with network proxies. In the case of PLATINUM’s version of portknocking, the opening of a UDP port would have been rendered moot if a
network firewall was blocking access for inbound packets to the host’s open
port.