Executive Summary
The Middle East has been a cyber warfare hotspot for almost a decade now, a theatre for some
of the most advanced threats the world has ever witnessed. In between those highly advanced
attacks, more and more attackers possessing only a basic set of skills started to pop up – spreading
well known RATs, obfuscated with generic publicly-available packers.
This report focuses on the CopyKittens, a mid-level group.
The CopyKittens attacks are effective and advanced in a few ways:


Infecting of computers is performed in multi-stage, stealthy method


Data exfiltration is performed over DNS protocol


They avoid using known RATs and packers, tools are "homemade"


Constant development is performed to overcome security products improvements


Yet, this group is clearly not made up of dozens of high-end computer and security experts. The
CopyKittens assembled major parts of their attack from code snippets carefully picked from public
repositories and online forums, hence their nickname. We also named their attack tool
"Matryoshka" [1] due to the fact that it was written as a multi-stage framework, with each part of it
built to integrate its subsequent step.
We have had only a partial window to the targets of these semi-sophisticated yet highly effective
attacks. Among them were high ranking diplomats at Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and some
well-known Israeli academic researchers specializing in Middle East Studies. Even if we combine
this with the fact that attackers goal seemed to be theft of sensitive data, we still lack the ability
to clearly identify who is behind this attacks and if it was sponsored by another major actor.
In our opinion, this will not be the last time we hear from this group. Their constant striving toward
improved performance, the fact that they probably executed successful attacks and the current
turmoil in the Middle East region leads us to the conclusion that the CopyKittens will keep striking
targets with similar profiles in the near future.
1 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matryoshka_doll
3