New ransomware boom
Medical and government institutions, as well as industrial companies, bore the
brunt of ransomware attacks.
28% 1% 20%
IT
Retail
Other
Multiple industries
6% 7% 8% 11% 19%
Healthcare
Government
Manufacturing and industry
Science and education
© Positive Technologies
Figure 10. Ransomware attacks by industry
Besides conducting attacks, hackers also created their own sites for publishing
stolen data, such as the News & Leaks data leak site by the Mount Locker group.
Some also formed alliances with other gangs. For example, Ako and ThunderX
ransomware operators joined under the name Ranzy Locker.
Top 5
ransomware
families


Ryuk (Conti)


REvil


Clop


Egregor


DoppelPaymer


9
Operators of Ryuk ransomware attacked medical institutions most frequently in
Q4 2020. The victims included Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Brooklyn, the
University of Vermont Health Network, Sky Lakes Medical Center in Klamath Falls
(Oregon), St. Lawrence Health System (New York), a gastroenterology clinic in
Nevada, and Taylor Made Diagnostics. Attacks on medical institutions can have
devastating consequences. For example, electronic health records for cancer pa
tients went down after a cyberattack on the University of Vermont Health Network.
The system was restored only a month after the attack, forcing clinicians to at-
tempt to recreate chemotherapy protocols from memory in the meantime.
However, Ryuk operators target other industries as well. FS-ISAC describes Ryuk
as a "rapidly evolving threat" to financial institutions. An incident with payment
card processing giant Total System Services is a notable example. The third-largest
payment processor for financial institutions in North America was hit by a ransom
ware attack in early December. More than 10 GB of data was published as a result
of the attack.
In one Ryuk ransomware incident investigated by DFIR experts, the attackers man
aged to compromise an entire corporate network with the ransomware in just two
hours. The attackers exploited vulnerability CVE-2020-1472 for the initial attack
vector. On average, it takes ransomware operators from two to five days to per
form an attack.
A new ransomware operator known as Hades debuted in early December. The first
reported incident took place on December 15, when trucking and freight logistics
company Forward Air suffered a ransomware attack. The attack caused disrup
tion and service delays, since cargo documentation was stored electronically. Nine
days after the Forward Air incident, news came of an attack on logistics provider
OmniTRAX. This attack was attributed to the Conti ransomware gang. The hackers
stole over 70 GB of internal documents. OmniTRAX refused to pay the ransom.
Security experts warn against paying off ransomware attackers, since doing so
encourages future crimes and justifies the continued investment of time and ef
fort. However, not all companies follow these recommendations; some of them
agree to pay up. In Q4 2020 alone, several companies paid a ransom, including
online educator K12, hit by Ryuk ransomware in mid-November; Barbados-based
conglomerate Ansa, attacked by REvil in October; a Mississippi school district; and
Delaware County (Pennsylvania), hit by DoppelPaymer ransomware. The last two
victims paid attackers $300,000 and $500,000, respectively.
First observed in September 2020, Egregor ransomware made a name for itself at
the end of the year. Prominent victims included transportation agency TransLink,
Chile-based multinational retailer Cencosud, U.S. department store Kmart, game
developers Ubisoft and Crytek, U.S. bookstore giant Barnes & Noble, and major
staffing agency Randstad. At Barnes & Noble, the stolen data included financial
and audit documents as well as client information, including shipping addresses,
email addresses, and purchase history. As a result of the attack on Cencosud, the
company's customers were temporarily unable to use Cencosud Card credit cards,
make returns, or pick up web purchases.
i
i
fi
10
Figure 11. Egregor ransom note
Nor did ransomware operators spare resorts. In late October, U.S. ski and golf
resort operator Boyne Resorts suffered a WastedLocker ransomware attack. The
company's reservations system was down for days as a result.
                                              [In November, web hosting provider Managed.com was attacked by REvil ransom](https://www.zdnet.com/article/web-hosting-provider-managed-shuts-down-after-ransomware-attack/)

ware. The company's web hosting systems were unavailable for at least four days.
The attack impacted client sites. Managed.com said the attack took down its entire
infrastructure, including WordPress and DotNetNuke managed hosting solutions,
mail servers, DNS servers, RDP access points, FTP servers, and online databases.
The hackers demanded a $500,000 ransom.
11