HELO Winnti: Attack or Scan?
lastline.com /labsblog/helo-winnti-attack-scan
September 30, 2019
Posted by Jason Zhang and Stefano Ortolani ON SEP 30, 2019
Since its first attack was discovered nearly a decade ago, Winnti has evolved into an advanced
and sophisticated toolkit leveraged by several actors such as APT17, Axiom, Barium, and
PassCV, just to name a few. All these actors have been sharing core tactics, techniques, and
procedures (TTPs), leading to highly persistent implants targeting organizations from the online
gaming industry to high-tech companies around the globe. It comes as no surprise that both
security vendors and researchers are still scrutinizing and tracking this specific threat.
While no new campaign has been publicly reported after the one targeting German
Pharmaceutical companies in April 2019 [1], since July 2019 we have been seeing a dramatic
increase of network activity related to Winnti. Figure 1 displays all daily alerts from more than two
months of telemetry data since mid-June 2019.
Figure 1: Winnti daily alerts timeline.
As it turned out, this telemetered traffic was due to external Winnti check-ins or “Winnti HELO”
messages sent out by non-malicious Winnti scanners looking for hosts infected by the Winnti
implant. Thanks to the massive increase of investigation-oriented traffic, the actual signal from
real attacks is buried in the noise generated by scan traffic. Such extremely low signal-to-noise
ratio poses huge challenges for both investigators and customers looking to identify real attacks.
In this report, we investigate the magnitude of this phenomenon, attempt to mitigate these
challenges, and propose an effective triage process benefiting the whole security community. We
start by providing a brief overview of the Winnti toolkit implants lifecycle. Then, we discuss the last
https://www.lastline.com/labsblog/helo-winnti-attack-scan/ 1/12
10/1/2019 HELO Winnti: Attack or Scan? | Lastline
two months of internal telemetry data showing the dramatic increase of Winnti traffic from various
sources, and explain why this is a challenging problem for both researchers and network
administrators. Finally, we provide a deep dive on the issue, share our findings, and propose an
effective triage process tailored to both researchers and security professionals.