~~Disinformation~~ ~~as an enterprise~~ ~~disruptor~~
Disinformation traverses a social diffusion chain
comprised of both intentional and unsuspecting
agents. Intentional actors include hackers,
disruptors, and other agents that generate or
propagate disinformation. These agents could
include nation states targeting a society, industry,
or social arena. They could also include agents
engaged in corporate counter-espionage activities
or anti-competitive disruption. Unintentional agents
might include personnel, vendors and suppliers,
other partners and stakeholders, customers, and
even competitors that continue the propagation
of disinformation, often not realizing what they
are doing. They concurrently become victims and
unsuspecting agents of disinformation. Through
these agents and other means of information
dissemination, a parallel and concurrent wave of
disinformation traverses or envelops the enterprise.
This wave can be simple and anticipated, like
the rise of a tide, or it can have the effect of an
unpredictable tsunami about to weigh down on
an unsuspecting coastal village. In this case, the
coastal village would be the enterprise information
Note 118 https://www.spotdeepfakes.org/en-US (in partnership with the University of Washington Center for Informed Public) Note 119 https://www.knowmynews.com/en-us (in partnership with NewsGuard)
Note 120 Do you know the Facts about the COVID-19 Vax? – NewsGuard (newsguardtech.com)
114
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
adjunct environments. Attackers and disruptors
know this and strike where they believe
weaknesses could exist. Their primary areas of
reconnaissance include operational security
and control systems alongside discovery
of code and configuration vulnerabilities,
especially within secondary or supporting
systems. Successful attacks could disrupt
threat signals, or infuse misleading data, if
they are able to bypass intrusion detection.
Enterprise decision makers should reevaluate
the scope and security of their protected
assets and associated instrumentation and
signals and ensure that intrusion detection
perimeters around core or critical assets have
been set to encompass these areas as well.
This review includes evaluation of controls
that measure the effectiveness of network
segmentation, validate adherence to data
and signal classification schema, inbound
and outbound traffic features and patterns,
classification of data and dependencies, and
instrumentation that ensures data integrity
as it traverses across systems, at rest and in
backups. Instrumentation and signals that
evaluate and indicate the performance of
critical systems should be cataloged and put
through a security and operational review
for vulnerabilities and possible causes of
compromise and injection of disinformation.
3. Situational intelligence could be supplanted
with disinformation or nuanced in ways to
generate bias or create doubt in the minds
of decision makers or front-line personnel.
Situational intelligence includes threat
intelligence, crisis intelligence, disaster data,
and other types of information that helps to
increase an enterprise’s understanding of
an operating or competitive environment.
~~One of the key strategies of disruptors is~~
~~to supplant situational intelligence with~~
~~disinformation. This strategy is often deployed~~
~~in environments that are considered out-of-~~
~~band or beyond the control and reach of the~~
~~enterprise, including social and other media~~
~~platforms, public sites and portals, and other~~
~~types of campaigns that could target the~~
~~enterprise or its complex and myriad supply~~
~~chains.~~ Disruptors sometimes generate so
much out-of-band disinformation that it
overwhelms facts and otherwise accurate
data. Their disruption tactics go beyond
the enterprise and its direct information,
extending often to suppliers and third-party
affiliates. Their goal is to introduce doubt in
the minds of decision makers and/or front-line
personnel. Disinformation that could disrupt
suppliers, logistics, deliveries, orders, and
fulfillment poses threats to the supply chain and
confidence in product and resource availability.
The impact of diminished confidence could
drive higher pricing and impact production
costs. Doubt in the enterprise’s ability to
maintain a grip on prices, supplies, and
suppliers could exacerbate disruption and
force accelerated timelines or induce imprecise
or incorrect decisions. Alternatively, it could
introduce latency or doubt in decisions, such
as recovery, failover, or fallback. Disruptors
could also try to diminish front-line confidence
in leadership by corroding confidence or by
presenting false or inaccurate information
and leading or trailing indicators. Enterprises
that are dependent on external sources of
intelligence for critical functions need to be
vigilant about information they ingest or
consume. Information gatherers and decision
makers need to validate sources and have
means of cross-checking intelligence. Rating
systems and schema should be used, and the
veracity and provenance of the intelligence
needs to be confirmed independently.
TOC [ INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  ] INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SNATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORC SECURITY E CURITY DISINFORMATIONDISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  ACTIONABLE INSIGHS  TEAMS T EAMS
INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SNATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORC SECURITY E CURITY DISINFORMATIONDISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  ACTIONABLE INSIGHS  TEAMS T EAMS
Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
Recommendations: Four-point   - Categorize and record the content that was 3. Quantify the consequences of disruption. hot and cold backups, or active-active models of
manipulated or introduced so that patterns can By examining dependency maps of data flow, redundancy or concurrency. Information disruptors
plan for enterprise executives
be determined or detected. analysis, and the points at which humans and and attackers aggressively search for backup
As enterprises develop and mature their capabilities
systems were impacted, enterprise leadership facilities, dormant data stores, or unattended data
                             - Determine the means of propagation and

to respond to information disruption and
diffusion through the enterprise. can estimate or calculate the consequences and and data services that are slated to be deprecated.
disinformation, there are new imperatives that are
collateral damage caused by disinformation and When they find a weakness in security controls,
emerging in the areas of security controls, threat     - Identify characteristics of actors and agents to
disruption. The goal of such an examination is to not only do they threaten breach of data but their
classification, and analysis. To support and enhance the best ability that is available at the time.
quantify the blast radius of any potential disruption actions can also trigger potentially impactful privacy
the enterprise’s ability to improve its response,     - Conduct candid and objective identification of and assess its severity on enterprise operations, incidents. Enterprise privacy and security teams must
prioritize mitigations to address the highest risks, corporate functions, processes, and systems functions, and reputation. The likelihood and take a closer look at controls, including security
and to make investments that propel or accelerate that consumed or were impacted by the impact of such disruption should be used to inform measures, encryption at rest and in transit, of
its corporate objectives, the following practices disinformation. investment in mitigations and controls and help primary data sources and any backups or alternate
could be leveraged as a starting point to develop
The net impact of the disruption or information prioritize safeguards that need to be implemented data stores. Gaps in these environments and
sustainable mitigations and improvements to
infiltration must be evaluated and eventually to give the enterprise the most appropriate controls must be reported to enterprise leadership
counter the effects of information disruption and
[ INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  ] defense against the impacts of disruption and and prioritized to be addressed in a timely manner.
NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORC SECURITY E CURITY DISINFORMATIONDISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  ACTIONABLE INSIGHS  TEAMS T EAMS
Introduction Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
Recommendations: Four-point
plan for enterprise executives
As enterprises develop and mature their capabilities

Determine the means of propagation and

hot and cold backups, or active-active models of

Categorize and record the content that was

3. Quantify the consequences of disruption.
manipulated or introduced so that patterns can
By examining dependency maps of data flow,
analysis, and the points at which humans and
systems were impacted, enterprise leadership
redundancy or concurrency. Information disruptors
be determined or detected.
and attackers aggressively search for backup
to respond to information disruption and
facilities, dormant data stores, or unattended data
and data services that are slated to be deprecated.
not only do they threaten breach of data but their
disinformation, there are new imperatives that are
diffusion through the enterprise.
can estimate or calculate the consequences and
collateral damage caused by disinformation and
disruption. The goal of such an examination is to
When they find a weakness in security controls,
emerging in the areas of security controls, threat

Identify characteristics of actors and agents to

classification, and analysis. To support and enhance
the best ability that is available at the time.
quantify the blast radius of any potential disruption
actions can also trigger potentially impactful privacy
incidents. Enterprise privacy and security teams must
and assess its severity on enterprise operations,
the enterprise’s ability to improve its response,

Conduct candid and objective identification of

prioritize mitigations to address the highest risks,
corporate functions, processes, and systems
functions, and reputation. The likelihood and
take a closer look at controls, including security
and to make investments that propel or accelerate
that consumed or were impacted by the
impact of such disruption should be used to inform
measures, encryption at rest and in transit, of
its corporate objectives, the following practices
disinformation.
investment in mitigations and controls and help
primary data sources and any backups or alternate
could be leveraged as a starting point to develop
The net impact of the disruption or information
data stores. Gaps in these environments and
prioritize safeguards that need to be implemented
sustainable mitigations and improvements to
controls must be reported to enterprise leadership
counter the effects of information disruption and
infiltration must be evaluated and eventually
to give the enterprise the most appropriate
defense against the impacts of disruption and
disinformation.
1. Catalog enterprise exposures to disruption,
manipulation, and disinformation.
Enterprises should begin with the arduous task of
cataloging or keeping track of disinformation attacks
on their information systems and data. This catalog
would be an addition to the catalog of threats and
attacks that are part of enterprise security controls.

Include a classification of information

manipulation and disinformation with clear
indicators of targeted outcomes and impact of
the attacks.

Note the sources of the attacks or information

leading to their origins and motivation, if
known.
2. Assess the impact of manipulation or
disinformation.
An emerging area for enterprise management and
human resources is to conduct impact analyses of
disruption and disinformation. Managers and human
resource departments should study the behavior
of enterprise employees, partners, and customers
as they reacted to disruption or interacted with
disinformation. Security and data science teams
should run A/B tests on AI and trained algorithms to
ensure they have not been corrupted or their models
tampered with. Finance teams and economists could
look at the costs of disruption, including opportunity
cost, and the liabilities associated with impact of
market confidence, revenue, growth, and operational
cost increases associated with disinformation.
included in considerations of corporate liability.
disinformation.
4. Assess privacy implications of disruption.
Disinformation and information disruption
campaigns sometimes attack or threaten customer
and other protected data, which can have significant
privacy implications for enterprises. Primary sources
or stores of such data are difficult targets as they are
kept deep inside the defensive network of controls,
intrusion detection, and layers of authentication and
authorization. Modern enterprise controls include
Zero Trust approaches and tightly controlled or
restricted access to data that is subject to privacy
regulations, controls, and guidelines. Sovereign
rules and obligations might also apply. It is under
such constraints and restrictions that enterprises
are expected to provide data resiliency, including
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
116
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
f
fi