6
Destroy Evidence
Characteristics:


Securely delete logs and files using non-public malware.


Deploy and execute disk-wiping malware to cover tracks


and disrupt later forensic analysis.

Use publicly available ransomware on the organization's

systems to delay SWIFT investigations and destroy
remaining evidence of activity.
Operational specifics:
APT38 is unique in that it is not afraid to aggressively
destroy evidence or victim networks as part of their
operations. The group, like many of the APT groups
we track, uses various methods to cover its tracks and
misdirect investigators. However, APT38 is also one of the
more brazen groups in that it is not afraid to cause enough
damage to render entire networks inoperable. This attitude
toward destruction is probably a result of the group trying
to not only cover its tracks, but also to provide cover for
money laundering operations.

Some functionality to remove traces of malware were

built into the malware itself. For example, DYEPACK
includes the ability to uninstall itself by removing its
service entry and calling a utility specifically used for
secure deletion. Once the file has been removed, it
executes a Windows batch script to also remove the
secure deletion utility. In one instance, DYEPACK was
configured to self-destruct on a preconfigured date.

APT38 deployed other tools (including CLEANTOAD

and CLOSESHAVE) that were specifically designed to
clean up other malware used during the operation. In
multiple intrusions, APT38 cleared Windows Event logs
and Sysmon logs probably to thwart forensic analysis.
In early intrusions, this was done manually, but as the
group's activities progressed, they developed and
deployed SCRUBBRUSH, a tool that deletes event logs
and prefetch files, and may attempt to clean up master
file table (MFT) records.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 22

APT38's operations demonstrate the group's intent to

disrupt victim operations. The group carefully identified
all systems within an environment (along with the
credentials needed to access those systems) and then
pushed wiper malware to the selected systems before
initiating a massive wipe event. This is more calculated
and time-consuming than relying on malware that
uses self-replication to identify and wipe systems.
Further, BOOTWRECK (one of the wipers used by
APT38) was configured to destroy critical sections of
the victim machines and then initiate a system reboot,
demonstrating an intention to knock the majority of
workstations and servers offline. An example disk boot
failure screen observed at one affected Latin American
organization is depicted in Figure 7.

APT38 has disrupted organizations' daily operations,

including causing website outages, phone inaccessibility,
and inoperability of important systems. During one
reported incident, APT38 rendered close to 10,000
workstations and servers completely inoperable, causing
an outage in the bank's telephone service and other
essential services.
Figure 7. Example system knocked offline by APT38
(Source: Twitter)