1.1 The impact of cybercrime
An estimated 4.66 billion people around the world
currently use the internet, [4] a number that has tripled
in the past 12 years as connectivity has become
more accessible, and that will continue to increase.
Our reliance on the use of computers and technology
has changed the way we conduct business,
communicate and socialize, and technology is an
indispensable part of all facets of life.
Humans are increasingly dependent on the internet,
yet our efforts to protect people, data, devices
and the infrastructure of the internet itself from
cybercriminals have not matched the threat they
pose. Cyber criminals steal an estimated $600
billion per year from governments, companies
and individuals, [5] while the overall loss of company
revenues over the course of five years, from 2019
to 2023, will reach $5.2 trillion. [6] In fact, cybercrime
is one of the most disruptive and economically
damaging criminal activities. Not only does it cause
substantial financial damages and pose a serious
threat to society and the global economy, it also
has indirect effects in undermining the public’s
confidence in digital transformation and overall trust
in technology.
Our connected world has become a lucrative
playground for cybercriminals who can launch
attacks on victims in multiple countries and
jurisdictions with little fear of being caught. They
use malicious software programs and technical
infrastructure to steal funds, intellectual property
and sensitive personal information. They carry out
attacks on individual users, networks and corporate
systems to engage in an enormous amount of
fraudulent and destructive activity. The tools and
services available to criminals as part of the crimeas-a-service model, which lowers the entry barrier
to committing cybercrime and provides relatively
sophisticated cyber capabilities to almost anyone
who is willing to pay, are also significantly increasing
the growing impact of cybercrimes.
The cybercrime threat landscape is quite diverse
and dynamic. Threat actors range from individuals,
to loosely connected cross-national collectives,
to large organizations that in many cases enjoy a
degree of support, tolerance or even direction from
nation states. Cybercriminals abuse encryption,
cryptocurrencies, anonymity services and other
technologies. Financially motivated cybercriminals
constantly innovate to increase their profits. In
addition to financial crimes, criminals use internetbased infrastructure to uphold terrorism and drug
trafficking, and spread disinformation to destabilize
governments and democracies. [7]
At the macro level, cybercrime is an enormous
barrier to digital trust, greatly undermining
the benefits of cyberspace and hindering
international cyber stability efforts. In addition,
cybercrimes increase global inequality, putting
both the corporations and governments with fewer
resources at higher risk of falling prey to these
activities. Developing countries with weak legal
and enforcement regimes as well as inadequate
capacity to mitigate cyberthreats are particularly
exposed to these crimes. If not mitigated,
cybercrimes could undermine these countries’
efforts to formalize their economies using digital
technologies, negatively impacting the anticipated
digital dividends.
Partnership against Cybercrime 6
Sources: INTERPOL,
“INTERPOL report shows
alarming rate of cyberattacks
during COVID-19”, 4 August
2020, https://www.interpol.
int/News-and-Events/
News/2020/INTERPOL-
report-shows-alarming-rate-
of-cyberattacks-during-
COVID-19; Europol, “Staying
safe during COVID-19: What
you need to know”, 6 May
2020, https://www.europol.
europa.eu/activities-services/
staying-safe-during-covid-
19-what-you-need-to-know
(both accessed 28 October
2020).