Plausible deniability
Intellexa’s commercial proposals are designed to create plausible deniability. These
clauses extend from the infrastructure responsibilities to the delivery methods. This is a
key aspect of Intellexa’s business model, the goal is to avoid a bad reputation and to
claim they are not responsible for what their customers do with their “product” — they
claim that they don’t even know who the victims are.
Proposal (snipped) defining responsibilities
The leaked proposals show that the infrastructure and anonymization are the
responsibility of the customer. From a deniability point of view, this enables the claim
that Intellexa doesn’t know how victims are being targeted. From the operational risk
perspective, such clauses also shield Intellexa from any responsibility in the event of a
public exposure connecting malicious operations back to the vendor.
Delivery method method
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 7/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
The delivery of Intellexa’s supporting hardware is done at a terminal or airport. This
delivery method is known as Cost Insurance and Freight (CIF), which is part of the
shipping industry’s jargon (“Incoterms”). This mechanism allows Intellexa to claim that
they have no visibility of where the systems are deployed and eventually located. This
exact scenario was seen being put into practice when, according to a LighthouseReports
investigation, Intellexa sold their solution to the Sudanese government.
Source: https://www.lighthousereports.com/investigation/flight-of-the-predator/
Even if we take into consideration the proposal’s terms such as, “Installation and
configuration at customer designated facility…” and the “Standard training course ……,”
it still does not mean that Intellexa might know where the hardware is located since
everything can be done remotely or even without their personnel knowing where the
customer’s “solution” is physically located.
Intellexa does have first-hand knowledge of if their software is being used to conduct
surveillance operations targeting phone number prefixes other than their customers'
country of origin and possibly their jurisdiction. This knowledge is a consequence of the
licensing model. Any sale is limited to a single phone country code prefix, but for an
additional fee, the customer can license the usage of the solution in additional countries
without geographic limitations.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 8/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware