table of contents Overview of the Group
The Evilnum group has been reported to target financial technology companies, mostly
located in the UK and other EU countries. The main goal of the group is to spy on its
infected targets and steal information such as passwords, documents, browser cookies,
email credentials and more.
Aside from the group’s own proprietary tools, Evilnum has been observed deploying
Golden Chickens tools in some cases, as reported in the past. Golden Chickens is a
Malware-as-a-Service (MaaS) provider that is known to have been used by groups such as
FIN6 and Cobalt Group. Among the tools used by the Evilnum group are More_eggs,
TerraPreter, TerraStealer, and TerraTV.
The Evilnum group’s activity was first identified in 2018, when they used the first version
of their infamous JavaScript Trojan. The script extracts C2 addresses from sites like
GitHub, DigitalPoint and Reddit by querying specific pages created for this purpose. This
technique enables the attackers to change the C2 address of deployed agents easily while
keeping the communications masked as requests are made to legitimate known sites.
Since then, the group has been mentioned several times, in different attacks, each time
upgrading its toolset with new capabilities as well as adding new tools to the group’s
arsenal.
The initial infection vector of Evilnum typically begins with spear phishing emails, with
the goal of delivering ZIP archives that contain LNK files masquerading as photos of
different documents such as driving licenses, credit cards, and utility bills. These
documents are likely to be stolen and belong to real individuals.
Once an LNK file is opened, it deploys the JavaScript Trojan, which in turn replaces the
LNK file with a real image file, making this whole operation invisible to the user.
Up to this date, as described in this publication, six different iterations of the JavaScript
trojan have been observed in the wild, each with small changes that don’t alter the core
functionality. The JavaScript agent has functionalities such as upload and download files,
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/no-rest-for-the-wicked-evilnum-unleashes-pyvil-rat 2/23
9/7/2020 No Rest for the Wicked: Evilnum Unleashes PyVil RAT
steal cookies, collect antivirus information, execute commands and more.
In addition to the JavaScript component, as described in a previous research, the group
has been observed deploying a C# Trojan, that possesses similar functionality to the
former JavaScript component.
Previous infection chain