DNS Tunneling
While the most common way for malware to communicate with its C&C server is by using the HTTP
or HTTPS protocol (usually to evade firewall rules or filtering), some attackers allow their malware to
communicate via DNS tunneling. The technique is not new and has its limitations, which is why it is not
seen quite often in APT attacks. But some actors do like using it, such as OilRig and GreenBug.
DNS tunneling in this context exploits the DNS protocol to transmit data between the malware and its
controller, via DNS queries and response packets.
The DNS client software (the malware) sends data, generally encoded in some ways, prepended as the
hostname of the DNS query. As an example, the malware might want to send a username “prouser1” to
the controller. The malware encodes this username in Base64 format:
```
prouser1 => cHJvdXNlcjE
```
The malware then sends the following DNS query:
```
cHJvdXNlcjE.c2serverdomainname.com
```
18 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
In this fictional example, the domain c2serverdomainname.com is owned and controlled by the attacker,
and points its nameserver (NS) records toward the server where DNS tunneling server software (the
controller) is running.
The server can then reply to the DNS query with different kinds of answers. Data can, for example, be sent
to the malware in the answered query via the CNAME record, or in the TXT field, or others.
Real examples from the wild have affected the oil and gas industry. The Alma communicator DNS tunneling
trojan [24] used by OilRig uses encryption to send data back and forth via DNS tunneling. The ISMDoor
malware also uses similar techniques. [25]
The limitation of the DNS tunneling technique resides in the length of data that can be transmitted per
request. In the best case, via the TXT record, for example, only 255 bytes can be sent at a time. If the
attacker needs to send more, the attacker needs to use several DNS queries.
Careful examination of the DNS requests sent from an infrastructure can be very effective in detecting
DNS tunneling.