classifying классификация
When we find code similarities between two or more samples, we basically know that a sample
file A shares a mutual code with another sample file – B . This alone is not enough for us, because
we need to know what are these A and B – are they variants or modules of the same family; do
they belong to the same actor; or most important – are these samples part of different families,
written by different actors. In order to do this, we need to have a clear understanding of the
ascription of each sample. When taking it into practice, we tried to figure out the following
information about each and every sample we gathered:
Actor – Which Russian APT actor is known or probable to have written this malware
(Turla, Sofacy, GreyEnergy, …)
Family – What is the common family name that is associated with this malware
Module – Many malware families are built in a modular way in which a certain
malware can load different payloads embedded in it or downloaded from a Command
and Control server. When possible, we wanted to know whether the sample we have
is a Keylogger module, a communication module, an injection module or anything
else.
Version – Some malware have a clear version stamp embedded in them. We wanted to be
able to differentiate between earlier and recent versions, as well as versions that were
written to different architectures and bits.
https://research.checkpoint.com/russianaptecosystem/ 3/14
10/1/2019 Mapping the connections inside Russia's APT Ecosystem - Check Point Research
Although on the surface it looks easy, classifying turned out to be one of the most complicated
parts of this research.
Starting with this frustrating fact – there is no naming standardization for malware and threat
actors in the infosec industry. Every Russian APT actor and every malware family have more than
a few names given to them by different Vendors, researchers, and intelligence institutions; Some
names will be used by different vendors to describe different families; Some malware families
would be described with different names by the same vendor; Other malware families simply do
not have a clear name. These issues and more, made us face one of the most painful drawbacks
of classification and required us to be very careful when we classify a specific piece of malware to
a family and an actor.