Common attack techniques by nation state actors Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
[Understanding what nation state threat groups are doing and why is one part of the story, but even
]
more important is to know how they conduct their operations so that organizations can put the appropriate
defense protections and practices in place. The sections below represent the most common tactics used by
nation state actors in the last year.
Reconnaissance
Microsoft has observed a significant increase in
password spray attacks by nation state actors in the
last year that indicate a new level of sophistication
in their reconnaissance tactics. Identifying and
accessing legitimate user accounts is a critical
method that an increasing number of nation state
actors are using to successfully infiltrate a targeted
organization and achieve operational aims.
PHOSPHORUS, HOLMIUM, and STRONTIUM are
examples of actors associated with nation state
operations that have successfully refined the
password spray tactic for reconnaissance over the
past two years. Password sprays have included
known accounts across large organizations but have
also included iterations of possible name formats to
discover accounts, including personal accounts.
PHOSPHORUS has targeted a wide variety of
41  https://github.com/sensepost/ruler
organizations in the past year, with particular
focus on targeting personal email accounts of
individuals employed or affiliated with their
objective. These operations have largely focused on
individuals involved in human rights organizations,
humanitarian or refugee relief efforts, NGOs defining
or setting policies associated with international
sanctions, or personal accounts of government
employees.
Personal email accounts are a particularly effective
target for a reconnaissance operation since
most individuals don’t apply the level of security
protections applied by larger organizations (such as
MFA and complex passwords). Individuals in smaller
organizations might also use consumer email
platforms for official communications, making them
high-value targets for surveillance. If a large-scale
password spray or password guessing operation is
launched against a set of known accounts, one of
the most effective ways to proactively prevent those
attacks is through the combination of MFA and
strong passwords.
HOLMIUM uses a combination of tactics to gain
access to networks, including socially engineered
spear-phishing operations and password spray
attacks. During one wave of activity over a two-day
period in January 2020, HOLMIUM password spray
activity attempted logins against 33,141 different
tenants with an average of 2.74 accounts per tenant.
Example of name reconnaissance
conducted by PHOSPHORUS:
iterations of name formats
including personal attacks
J.Smith@contoso.com
John.smith@contoso.com
John.m.smith@contoso.com
JohnSmith@contoso.com
johnmsmith@contoso.com
Other capabilities of HOLMIUM include use of
open-source “penetration testing tools” as well
as custom PowerShell-based tools. Attacks have
targeted entities affiliated with the oil and gas sector
and its supporting industries, including maritime
transportation and logistics companies. HOLMIUM
actors have been observed deploying Ruler, a self
described “tool to abuse Exchange accounts” on
compromised accounts.⁴¹ The Ruler command and
control server in turn deploys a custom PowerShell
based implant identified as “Powerton.”
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 51
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Credential harvesting
Credential harvesting is a common tactic used
by nation state actors to improve their ability to
compromise a targeted organization. Microsoft
tracks activity by multiple actors that leverage spear
phishing emails, carefully crafted imitation domains,
and spoofed login pages to convince employees
to login using their corporate credentials. These
logins on maliciously crafted websites steal and then
reuse the usernames and passwords recorded by
unsuspecting employees.
THALLIUM is one Microsoft-identified nation
state actor that uses credential harvesting as
a successful tactic to gain access to NGOs,
government organizations, and other professional
services organizations affiliated with their areas of
geopolitical interest. THALLIUM spends significant
resources purchasing and using imitation domains
that resemble their targeted organization’s name,
or using the name of an online service the target
uses, as the subdomain. For example, THALLIUM
registered the client-mobile.work domain and
then created a subdomain that includes the words
“login” and “outlook” (such as login-outlook.
client-mobile.work ) to raise the likelihood they
will successfully convince a targeted individual to
provide their credentials. THALLIUM then set up a
cloned authentication page to convince the target
to provide their username and password, thinking
they were logging into a legitimate corporate site.
It’s also worth noting that use of the word “mobile”
could also indicate they anticipated a user might
click on this lure from a mobile phone and the
screen size or difficulty in seeing the full URL on
these devices might increase the likelihood a user
will fall for the lure.
THALLIUM’s spoofed pages include most major
online service brands. The servers they use to
conduct this credential theft are often compromised
servers of other legitimate companies, such
as a small business computer that has been
compromised and then set up as infrastructure for
this intrusion. THALLIUM has also been known to
use inexpensive regional virtual private server (VPS)
providers as infrastructure for similar operations.
In the last year, MSTIC has discovered more than
500 domains that were registered by THALLIUM
to conduct credential theft operations—most
mimicking a well-known brand to successfully lure
their targeted user.
THALLIUM typically attempts to trick victims
through spear phishing. By gathering information
about the targeted individuals from social media,
public personnel directories from organizations
the individual is involved with, and other public
sources, THALLIUM is able to craft a personalized
spear-phishing email in a way that gives the email
credibility to the target. As seen in the sample
spear-phishing email below, the content is designed
to appear legitimate, but closer review shows that
THALLIUM has spoofed the sender by combining
the letters “r” and “n” to appear as the first letter “m”
in “microsoft.com.” The link in the email redirects
the user to a website requesting the user’s account
credentials. By tricking victims into clicking on the
fraudulent links and providing their credentials,
THALLIUM is then able to log in to the victim’s
account.
Additionally, THALLIUM will often create a new
mail-forwarding rule in the victim’s account settings.
This mail-forwarding rule will forward all new emails
received by the victim to THALLIUM-controlled
accounts. By using forwarding rules, THALLIUM can
continue to see email received by the victim, even
after the victim’s account password is updated.
Credential harvesting exampleDiagram of spoofing by combining letters “r” and “n” to appear as the letter “m”
Learn more:
STRONTIUM: Detecting new patterns in credential
harvesting 2020/09/10
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 52
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Malware
BARIUM also uses what’s described as “supply chain”
techniques as an initial infection vector against
organizations globally. In these cases, BARIUM
compromises software companies and modifies their
source code to install malware. Modifying legitimate
software and compromising update processes allows
BARIUM to selectively compromise organizations
of their choosing. BARIUM has embedded malware
in legitimate software executables which, when
deployed, beaconed over DNS to infrastructure that
BARIUM controlled. By monitoring this DNS traffic,
BARIUM could select their victim and customize
delivery of more specialized modules to clients of
their choosing.
More recently, BARIUM has shifted their techniques
to start using more open-source malware tooling in
their attacks. Microsoft has observed them dropping
batch files that are used to create persistence
for their Implants using Crosswalk/Strilix and
CobaltStrike, two common open-source penetration
testing tools that can easily be weaponized for
attacks.
For more information on software supply chain,
see the In focus: Supply chain security section of
this report.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 53
Malware represents one of the most effective and
commonly used methods by nation state actors
to successfully infiltrate and maintain persistence
on a targeted system. Advanced adversaries invest
heavily in development of unique malware, but
also are known to obfuscate their activity by using
openly available malicious code for mainstream
online criminal activity. Even more common is the
malicious use of known vulnerabilities in commercial
enterprise software to take advantage of poorly
secured targets.
BARIUM is a long-running actor with abundant
success in compromising victims since 2006.
Although the group has been observed mostly
targeting information technology, software, and IT
products and services companies, Microsoft has
seen BARIUM target a wide range of organizations
including but not limited to retail, manufacturing,
NGOs, government organizations, gaming, and
hospitality. BARIUM is particularly effective at
improving on their own custom malware and
leveraging open-source tools to limit detection.
BARIUM appears to frequently upgrade and refine
their toolkit with slight modifications to their
implants to stay ahead of defenders. Some of the
modifications to their implants suggest that BARIUM
actively develops and maintains either the primary
codebase or a fork of PlugX, Strilix (Crosswalk), and
Winnti malware.
The attention to detail seen in BARIUM
reconnaissance, infrastructure setup, and custom
malware has contributed to abundant success in
compromising targets.
Summary of techniques BARIUM has used
successfully in past operations:
• Windows shortcut (.Lnk) with hidden
payloads
Windows Shortcut.Ink with hidden payloads
was observed in the summer 2016. The RAR
archive BARIUM sent to the victim contained
a Windows Shortcut file, Resume.docx, and
an executable named Thumbs.db. When the
victim ran the .lnk file, it installed the Win32/
Barlaiy3F [42] implant and then displayed a
legitimate Resume.docx.
• Windows compiled html help files. (.Chm)
Because Microsoft HTML Help is a necessary
feature in the Windows platform, HTML Help
generates .CHM files legitimately that can be
viewed by using the Windows HH.exe viewer.
BARIUM delivers malicious .CHM files that
execute when the user opens them. While the
user will see what appears to be a legitimate
document in the Help Viewer (commonly a
résumé), the malware silently runs JavaScript
that executes the malware delivery and stores it
in xml.htm.
• Microsoft PowerPoint and Word documents
with macro
This technique required the victims to “enable
content” (macros) within a malicious PowerPoint
or Word file typically delivered in an email. This
technique can bypass protections if users aren’t
careful and manually enable the macro when
opening the document. The theme of these files
was typically focused on résumés or business
development, aligning with themes uncovered
in the reconnaissance phases. When these
macros were successfully run, a backdoor trojan
was installed.
42 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/threats/malware-encyclopedia-descriptionTrojanDropper:Win32/Barlaiy.A!dha
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
VPN Exploits
As the world adjusts to increased numbers of
remote workers, global enterprise IT departments
rely on VPNs to improve the connectivity and
security of systems. Typically, this critical service is
managed by third-party software deployed across
our devices. Since mid-2019, Microsoft has observed
nation state actors consistently targeting and
frequently compromising outdated and unpatched
VPN infrastructure. This activity indicates they view
it as an easy and effective method for penetrating
and persisting on a targeted network by using
compromised credentials.
MANGANESE has been successful in compromising
victims since 2010. The group targets companies in
sectors such as satellite communications, defense,
healthcare and public health, IT products and
services, and GPS navigation. They’re known to be
quite stealthy, maintaining access to their victims
for long periods of time, and conducting successful
operations against multiple victims over several
years with few updates to their malware. They
frequently use social profiles from highly visited
internet sites for their malware configuration strings,
making it difficult for targeted organizations to
detect.
MANGANESE is known for leveraging stolen
credentials from victim networks to maintain
long-term access. Their most common tactic
for maintaining persistence on an account is by
connecting to remote access locations using
legitimate accounts, which reduces the chances of
being detected. They also rely on heavy use of VPN
providers for infrastructure and short-timespan
connections to further reduce their trackable
footprint.
For more information on VPN exploits, see the
Security and the remote workforce chapter of this
report.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Applying security patches for internet-facing ]
systems is critical in preventing attacks.
When managing VPN or VPS infrastructure, it’s
critical for organizations to know the current status
of related security patches. In October 2019, both
the National Security Agency and National Cyber
Security Centre (NCSC) put out alerts on these
attacks and encouraged enterprises to patch.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 54
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY