2 Tools
A number of tools aided in rapidly analyzing and characterizing members of this large data set.
Analysis primarily took place within a Linux environment, supported by a large number of open
source tools for network traffic analysis. Research conducted using open source databases complemented the artifacts generated by these tools. This analysis and research provided the information necessary to create the data tuples necessary for analysis with the Diamond Model.
2.1 GNU Core Utilities
The various GNU core utilities, such as grep, cut, and cat, were useful in manipulating large
amounts of network traffic data. Since the PCAP data was distributed as separate files, using these
tools was especially helpful to analyze many or all of these files collectively.
2.2 SiLK and super_mediator
SiLK, or System for Internet-Level Knowledge, is a suite of tools for analyzing network traffic
that was developed by the CERT Division of the Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute
(Software Engineering Institute 2016). We used the various SiLK tools considerably throughout
the study. SiLK made it possible to query large amounts of network traffic data and understand
the overall picture of external host interaction with the honeynet, particularly in terms of time, frequency, protocol, and port. In turn, this analysis aided characterization of hosts and events within
the context of the Diamond Model. The SiLK tools most commonly used in this study include
rwfilter, rwstats, and rwsetbuild. We employed the rwp2yaf2silk tool to generate
flow records from the PCAP data.
Another tool developed by the CERT Division, super_mediator, enabled us to process payload
data from the PCAP files at scale. We used super_mediator in combination with YAF to extract
specific payload data by providing Berkeley packet filter (BPF) rules to the applications. This
technique served as a useful alternative to a graphical protocol analyzer (such as Wireshark) for
application-layer analysis of the traffic (Software Engineering Institute 2016).
2.3 Shell Scripts
We automated several portions of our analysis with shell scripts that were implemented in GNU
Bash. These scripts performed tasks such as converting batches of PCAPs to flow records, extracting event tuples from flow records, organizing data sets, and parsing or converting numerous
items from the data set at once.
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 5
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited