2000
The idea of focusing on reconnaissance and
stratagem activities arose as early as 2000. A Jiefan­
guin Bao article notes that units at and above army
level should focus their study on reconnaissance
and early warning, command coordination, and the
application of strategy. [6] An article substantiating
this thought appeared in the PLA’s authoritative
journal China Military Science (similar in impor­
tance to Joint Force Quarterly ). The latter article
notes that stratagems should create opportunities
and favorable times for releasing viruses. [7]
Another China Military Science article clarified
the offensive posture described in 1999. In it, General
Dai Qingmin opines that offense is at least as impor­
tant as active defense, and notes, “As the key to gain­
ing the initiative in operations lies in positively and
actively contending with an enemy for information
superiority, China should establish such a view for IO
as ‘active offense.’” His view is that active offense
is essential for maintaining information control,
obtaining the initiative, and offsetting an opponent’s
superiority. Offensive information methods can help
sabotage an enemy’s information system. [8]
Dai, who became the head of the PLA General
Staff’s Fourth Department (Electronic Warfare), also
notes that IO stratagems can be formulated before
launching a war to serve as “a sharp sword” that sab­
otages and weakens a superior enemy, while protect­
ing or enhancing China’s fighting capacity. Informa­
tion warfare can serve as a type of invisible fighting
capacity to evade combat with a stronger enemy. [9] If
a future information warfare goal is to defeat strong
forces with weak forces using stratagems, then such
methods are one of China’s asymmetric means to
combat U.S. high technology. [10] Stratagems would
thus be one of the “magic weapons” that Chinese
strategic culture is always stressing.
Finally, Dai’s August 2000 article in China
Military Science discusses the use of electrons as
stratagems and the development of an integrated
network electronic warfare capability. When com­
bined with the active-offense concept, this article
represents one of the most important information
warfare articles written in China.
C H I N A’ S C Y B E R WA R
Other less notable publications also discuss offen­
sive operations. In a March 2000 Internet version of
Computer and Information Technology, analysts at
the PLA’s Electronic Engineering Institute at Hefei
discuss the need for network confrontation teams
and the requirement to conduct both defensive and
offensive operations. [11] In September 2000, the jour­
nal Guangjiao Jing noted that the PLA had recently
established information warfare departments within
its headquarters organizations. [12] Thus, the idea of
offensive operations was not limited just to Dai.