Heavy Zebrocy deployments
Since mid-November 2015, the threat actor referred to as “Sofacy” or
“APT28” has been utilizing a unique payload and delivery mechanism
written in Delphi and AutoIT. We collectively refer to this package and
related activity as “Zebrocy” and had written a few reports on its usage
and development by June 2017 – Sofacy developers modified and
redeployed incremented versions of the malware. The Zebrocy chain
follows a pattern: spearphish attachment -> compiled Autoit script
(downloader) -> Zebrocy payload. In some deployments, we observed
Sofacy actively developing and deploying a new package to a much
smaller, specific subset of targets within the broader set.
Targeting profiles, spearphish filenames, and lures carry thematic content
related to visa applications and scanned images, border control
administration, and various administrative notes. Targeting appears to be
widely spread across the Middle East, Europe, and Asia:</p style=”margin
bottom:0!important”>
Business accounting practices and standards
Science and engineering centers
Industrial and hydrochemical engineering and standards/certification
Ministry of foreign affairs
Embassies and consulates
National security and intelligence agencies
Press services
Translation services
NGO – family and social service
Ministry of energy and industry
We identified new MSIL components deployed by Zebrocy. While recent
Zebrocy versioning was 7.1, some of the related Zebrocy modules that
drop file-stealing MSIL modules we call Covfacy were v7.0. The
components were an unexpected inclusion in this particular toolset. For
example, one sent out to a handful of countries identifies network drives
when they are added to target systems, and then RC4-like-encrypts and
writes certain file metadata and contents to a local path for later
exfiltration. The stealer searches for files 60mb and less with these
extensions:
.doc
.docx
.xls
.xlsx
.ppt
.pptx
.exe
.zip
.rar
At execution, it installs an application-defined Windows hook. The hook
gets windows messages indicating when a network drive has been
attached. Upon adding a network drive, the hook calls its “RecordToFile”
file stealer method.
Zebrocy spearphishing targets:
AF, AM, AU, AZ, BD, BE, CN, DE, ES, FI, GE, IL, IN, JO, KW, KG, KZ, LB, LT,
MN, MY, NL, OM, PK, PO, SA, ZA, SK, SE, CH, TJ, TM, TR, UA, UAE, UK, US,
UZ