1.1.2 Modularity
Dridex is made up of several modules, including:

A loader, tasked with:

– downloading a list of peers [3] ;
–
initial recognition within the information system (IS);
–
installing the payload;
–
downloading the additional modules.

· A payload (also known as the core module, which contains the integrated functions and to which other
modules may be added in order to expand its functionality.

The main functions integrated within Dridex’s core module are as follows:


A keylogger, which provides the threat actors with context about the victim (screenshots, keyboard input, etc.);


Harvesting information and tampering with content on websites (web injection), via interaction with the
Internet browsers. According to Bromium [4], Dridex is believed to have at least five Web injection [4] techniques.


This functionality can primarily be extended by the following modules:


VNC: this module supplies Virtual Network Computing (VNC) [5] support for the threat actor’s remote access to
the victim’s workstation;


SOCKS: this gives Dridex a SOCKS proxy support [6] ;


Pony: based on the Pony malware [7], this can steal access codes;


1 As well as personal data and account balances.
2 Technique previously leveraged by and most likely borrowed from the trojan Dyre.
3 In the context of Dridex peer-to-peer pseudo-network operations.
4 DLL order hijacking, process hollowing, PE injection, thread execution hijacking and AtomBombing .
5 System for viewing and controlling the desktop environment of a remote computer, using the RFB protocol for communications.
6 The network protocol Secured over credential based kerberos (SOCKS) enables a program to use the services of a firewall during an exchange
with an external server
7 Malware and controller of the botnet active since 2011, specialising in the theft of access codes and crypto-assets, but also in the distribution
of malware, v1.9 of which leaked at the end of 2012 [5]. Pony has distributed such malware as GoZ, Necurs, Dyre, Vawtrak, Cryptolock and
Cribit. In 2013, there were several Pony botnets.
17/07/2020 Page 3 sur 24
TLP:WHITE
TLP:WHITE
The malware Dridex: origins and uses


Kill OS: deployed across systems identified as belonging to researchers or automated malware analysis systems,
it erases the master boot record (MBR) from the hard drive in a bid to sabotage the infected workstation;


Spammer: this is harnessed to send spam emails;


Email stealer: this is run to harvest the victim’s emails.


Fig. 1.1 : General composition