Introduction to Electric Grid Operations
As with most ICS specific incidents, the most interesting components of the attack
are in how the adversary has demonstrated they understand the physical industri­
al process. Whereas vulnerabilities, exploits, and infection vectors can drive dis­
cussions in intrusion analysis of IT security threats that is not the most important
aspect of an ICS attack. To fully understand the CRASHOVERRIDE framework, its
individual capabilities, and overall impact on ICS security it is important to under­
stand certain fundamentals of electric grid operations.
Simplistically, the electric grid can be categorized into three functions: generation
of electricity at power plants, transmission from the power plants across typically
long distances at high voltage, and then stepped down to lower voltage to distribu­
tion networks to power customers. Along these long transmission and distribution
systems are substations to transform voltage levels, serve as switching stations and
feeders, and fault protection.
Many industries feed into the electric grid, and those differences require different
systems and communications. As an example, while a power plant feeds energy
into the electric grid there is no one-size-fits-all approach to power plants. There
are power plants that cover different sources of fuel including coal-fired, nuclear
generation, wind farm, solar farm, gas turbine power, hydroelectric and more. This
means that the electric grid must be a robust, almost living creature, which moves
and balances electricity across large regions. Electric grids use a special type of
industrial control system called a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
system to manage this process across large geographical areas. Transmission and
distribution owners have their substations in their particular geographical footprint
and control centers manage the cross-territory SCADA systems 24/7 by human op­
erators. These control centers often regularly manage the continual demand and
response of their customers, respond to faults, and plan and work with neighboring
utilities.
This simplistic view of grid operations is similar around the world. There are of­
ten vendor and network protocol differences between countries but the electrical
engineering, and the overall process is largely the same between nations. As an
example, these systems use SCADA and leverage systems such as remote terminal
units (RTUs) to control circuit breakers. As the breakers open and close, substations
are energized or de-energized to balance power across the grid. Some network
protocols such as IEC 104, a TCP-based protocol, and its serial protocol compan­
ion IEC 101, are often regional specific. Europe, some of Asian, and portions of
the Middle East leverage these protocols to control RTUs from the SCADA human
machine interfaces (HMIs).
6