Observations about the TeamSpy Toolset - “No find glue file!”
The toolset demonstrates clever, although lazy choices about legitimate software and certificate abuse, along with a minimal
but effective effort at using simple and crude custom encryption algorithms.
We’ve analyzed in depth two command and control servers used by the attackers but we are aware of several others used in
the campaign. The two servers we analyzed are “politnews.org” and “bannetwork.org”.
PAGE 3 | The ‘TeamSpy’ Story - Abusing TeamViewer in Cyberespionage Campaigns | 20 March 2013
On the command and control servers, the attackers maintain tools and modules, some obfuscated and named as JPG files. The
“.JPG” files maintain hidden executable codes, and are simply encoded with a rolling XOR encryption using the same key across
all of the components: “0x0e0f101112”.
There are quite a few traces left by the attackers, which normally can give you hints about attaсkers’ profile.
For example, a keylogger tool used a system event called "klgskot". While "klg" stands for keylogger, "skot" is a Russian
word meaning "livestock".
There are many more Russian language traces in this malware toolkit. The version of Teamviewer server which is used as a
part of malware bundle is Russian localized. It at least includes TeamViewer_Resource_ru.dll file which has a set of Russian
strings used by the application.
A couple of other modules, while searching for files on the hard drive, looked for those containing "pass", "secret", and
Russian equivalents "парол" and "секрет". In addition to Russian, there was a Georgian equivalent of "secret", but written in
the Latin alphabet: "saidumlo".
In the recent Red October report, our research noted liberal use of Cyrillic characters throughout code and files...“Another
noteworthy fact is in the first line of this file, which is a command to switch the codepage of an infected system to 1251. This is
required to address files and directories that contain Cyrillic characters in their names”. Here is a screenshot demonstrating
the system codepage switch in a malicious batch file:
Usage of CP1251 in Red October
Just like Red October, TeamSpy components maintain the same sort of language switch to Cyrillic throughout code and files.
Here, we note that an entire TeamSpy SQLite database’s strings used to house stolen victim data, located on one of the major
C2, is specified to default to the Cyrillic character set.
PAGE 4 | The ‘TeamSpy’ Story - Abusing TeamViewer in Cyberespionage Campaigns | 20 March 2013
Tables within the database are explicitly configured to use the Cyrillic character set. Here is the log table, filled with victim
check-in records:
The statistic table, along with all of the others, are explicitly Cyrillic:
Also, some specifics come from C&C domain names, such as "bulbanews.org" and "kartopla.org". The words "bulba" and
"kartopla" are written in Latin-Belarusian and Latin-Ukrainian, both words mean “a potato”. Interestingly, among ex-USSR
countries, Belarusians are jokingly called "bulbashi" which means "potato people" due to the popularity of this vegetable in
local agriculture.
One of the modules we found, called footer has LANG_RUSSIAN property set in the resource section of the executable.
Also, one of the database tables discovered at a C&C server contained some text in Russian written with latin alphabet:
PAGE 5 | The ‘TeamSpy’ Story - Abusing TeamViewer in Cyberespionage Campaigns | 20 March 2013
A rough translation of the highlighted strings from Russian to English:
"Obshie manevri. Ispolzovat' tolko s razreshenija S-a" = " General maneuvers. Use only after approval of S-a ".
"vkluchenie oomask" = " switching oomask on "
"Ispolzovanie bilda ..." = " Using build ... "
The same C&C we analyzed had a full FTP access log with source IP that uploaded malicious modules in 2012 (some of them
were already removed from the server, but the names and sizes remained in the log file). This log file also shows intensive
usage of Russian language in the file names:
The filenames include "можно выдавать" which is translated as " ready to spread ", "Проверка на прото" meaning " Protocol
checks ". The most amusing part of this log is "crypted_bulba" which is translated as "encrypted potato". Everyone is familiar
with baked potato or mashed potato, however this is our first touch with " encrypted potato ".
The SystemInfoSave module lists all files in the “Program Files” folder which are newer than the hard-coded date: “ 22
November 1963 ”. The date is clearly an “Easter Egg”, with several important incidents linked this specific date:


US President John F. Kennedy is assassinated in Dallas.


Aldous Huxley, the author of “Brave New World” and many other titles, dies.


CS Lewis, the author of “Chronicles of Narnia” and many other titles, dies.

