Fatal libcurl error
Invalid Ipv6 address format
DICT
LDAP
IMAP
SMTP
POP3
Proxy
Socks5
Socks4
Send failure
Recv failure
NTLM send
close instead of sending
Failed sending POST request
Internal HTTP POST error
Failed sending Gopher request
meda / moci / rare / daledid Bad tagged response
CAPABILITY
STORE
FETCH
SELECT
EXAMINE
Unexpected continuation response
STARTTLS
LOGIN
DIGEST
LOGIN
PLAIN
AUTHENTICATE
AUTHENTICATE
PRET
PRET STOR
PRET RETR
REST
SIZE
MDTM
Illegal port number in EPSV reply
Weirdly formatted EPSV reply
An unknown option was passed in to libcurl
Malformed telnet option
SSL peer certificate or SSH remote key was not OK
CLIENT libcurl 7.31.0
sb703.dat / sb953.dat Auxiliary database format error
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/exposing-modular-adware-how-dealply-iserik-and-managex-persist-in-systems/ 6/10
4/17/2020 Exposing Modular Adware: How DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX Persist in Systems - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
2 [nd] parameter to sqlite3_bind out of range
File opened that is not a database file
sqlite3_step
has another row ready
sqlite3_step
has finished executing
Unknown SQLite Error Code
Could not init the DLL
Error executing SQL
Could not prepare SQL statement
GB.Q0
SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion
CurrentVersion
CSDVersion
Table 3. Filenames and corresponding interesting strings
We observed that most machines with a DealPly infection also have Sqlite3.dll (non-malicious) in the adware folder. (It is to be noted that Sqlite is an extensively
used database format. Coincidentally, the encrypted files ( bapi_ie.dat, bapi_chmm.dat, and bapi_ff.dat ) also contain SQLite-related strings, which suggest that the
files may be used to perform database-related tasks.
Since we could not fully decrypt these files, we were also unable to analyze them to identify their purpose. Based on the partially extracted strings and combined with
the fact that sqlite3.dll was observed in our analysis, it is highly possible that it would be used to interact with the SQLite databases of browsers within the system, as
it is known that both Chrome and Firefox utilize SQLite databases to store their data.
The other set of files contains libcurl-related strings, which is a multi-protocol file transfer library. That being said, it has the potential to interface with multiple
protocols like HTTPS, HTTP, or FTP. It is unclear if this library has been used for malicious purposes, but in a 2018 report, these strings were also found in samples
that were once used by the APT group Hidden Cobra as a proxy module to allow incoming connections and force the infected system to act as a proxy server.
Noteworthy points from our analyses
DealPly and ManageX can come bundled in a seemingly legitimate installer, along with other PUAs. We observed the same entry point as Case Study #1 in
another machine, which was called “ Baixaki_Baixar Musicas Gratis_3890201077.exe ” (translates to Baixaki_Download Free Music_3890201077.exe in
Portuguese). But it did not come with the Segurazo fake AV.
Figure 15. Infection chain without the fake AV
There was no concrete evidence in Case Study #2 regarding the source, but based on the artifacts created on the first infection date, it might also have come
from a software installation bundle.
The installation of this adware is highly modular and does not complete its routine right away. Based on our observation, it takes a few weeks to months before
it can connect to its servers successfully.
The technique used by this adware, whereby two files are conjoined to form another file, is called binary fragmentation and is used to evade detection. Carbon
Black published an article years ago about how it was used by Operation Aurora. Below is an example of the fragmentation technique seen in one of our
analyses:
CLI: c:\windows\syswow64\cmd.exe /c cmd /d /c copy /b /y /v
“c:\users\appdata\local\temp\d3284081000781.dat”+”c:\users\appdata\local\temp\d3284081000782.dat”
“c:\users\appdata\roaming\14be90~1\syncversion.exe” & cmd /d /c del “c:\users\appdata\local\temp\d3284081000781.dat” & cmd /d /c del
“c:\users\appdata\local\temp\d3284081000782.dat”
Carbon Black researchers also believed that threat actors are using known adware variants, including DealPly, as a delivery mechanism for ransomware and other
malware. While we have observed several cases of ransomware in the same machines infected by DealPly, we have no concrete evidence to prove their relationship.
In spite of this, we agree that this adware can easily be used as an agent to deliver malware covertly, given its modular nature.
Global distribution
Our telemetry indicates the widespread installation of the mentioned PUAs, with the United States, Japan, and Taiwan topping the counts. The IsErIk count is based
on behavior monitoring, which detects the command line parameter “–IsErIk”, while both DealPly and ManageX are based on signature-based detections data from
the Trend Micro™ Smart Protection Network™ security infrastructure.
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/exposing-modular-adware-how-dealply-iserik-and-managex-persist-in-systems/ 7/10
4/17/2020 Exposing Modular Adware: How DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX Persist in Systems - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Figure 16. Top 10 affected countries,
based on data from the Trend Micro Smart Protection Network infrastructure for the period of December 18, 2019 to March 17, 2020
Among all users with known industry classifications, the top industries across all the three adware detections mentioned above were consistent: Education,
Government, and Manufacturing.
Figure 17. Top 10 affected industries,
based on data from the Trend Micro Smart Protection Network infrastructure for the period of December 18, 2019 to March 17, 2020
Note: We removed duplicated counts based on GUIDs. This means that the counts include multiple endpoints belonging to the same company.
Correlating DealPly, IsErIk and ManageX
When we started our probe, we considered all these as separate even though they share common traits such as the use of scheduled tasks and the similar way its
servers were named. However, through Managed XDR, we were able to link them together. To see if this is consistent with global data, we gathered more information
from SPN.
Figure 18. The number of DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX detections and their infection intersections in endpoints, based on data from the Trend Micro Smart
Protection Network infrastructure for the period of December 18, 2019 to March 17, 2020: DealPly led the number of detections; we also observed the three threats
to have concurring infections in machines.
While there are significantly higher numbers for individual detections, hundreds to thousands of intersections between two or three of these adware do not seem like a
coincidence. Furthermore, the large number of detections could be attributed to detection coverage, which appears higher for DealPly because of multiple pattern
detections.
Since Trend Micro detects a lot of these variants, it is likely that most of these infections were already blocked before complete installation. Therefore, the numbers
shown in this diagram could be smaller than the actual intersections. Along with the results of our analyses, and considering the points mentioned, we think that there
is a high likelihood that these adware commonly coexist.
We also tried to correlated the C&C servers used, but a huge part of it is entirely disconnected. Only two pairs had similarities.
ManageX IP address DealPly
qamopo[.]com 13.32.230.240 tuwoqol[.]com
pacudoh[.]com 52.222.149.67 daqah[.]com
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/exposing-modular-adware-how-dealply-iserik-and-managex-persist-in-systems/ 8/10
4/17/2020 Exposing Modular Adware: How DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX Persist in Systems - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Table 4. The IP addresses DealPly and ManageX share
While the intersection is too weak to summarize that these three threats are interrelated based on network infrastructure, we do have to point out that the domains
were registered through the Israeli registrar Galcomm’s privacy protection service (domainprivacy@galcomm[.]com). A few years back, Ars Technica ran an article
about when SourceForge bundled GIMP for Windows with adware. The installer(s) of GIMP also came bundled with similar adware, which was also registered
through Galcomm’s privacy protection service.
Conclusion and Trend Micro solutions
Mitigating adware (or potentially unwanted applications) would normally be secondary to dealing with threats such as hacking tools, backdoors, and ransomware.
However, there is a large disconnect in dealing with alerts visible through the lens of a security operations center (SOC) analyst: Why is this host suddenly
communicating to a command-and-control (C&C) server? How was the threat introduced? Why is it seemingly slipping past defenses?
The seemingly disconnected and repetitive alerts for hosts reaching out to C&C servers, and repetitive detections of low priority threat (adware) led us to these three
points:
As evidenced in the details we discussed, linking separate and seemingly disparate events into a single timeline is a definite challenge as threats are turning to
sophisticated methods to maintain persistence and continuously evolve if not fully mitigated. Using open-source intelligence (OSINT) could only give analysts
a glimpse of its relevant connections and is not as sufficient. Using security expertise also helps provide meaningful alerts and alleviates security operations
teams.
Through the effective use of technologies of a Trend Micro product (Apex One’s Endpoint Detection and Response module called Endpoint Sensor in
particular), Trend Micro’s Managed XDR Service was able to perform advanced threat analysis, correlation, and research while monitoring and detecting
threats of these highly prevalent clusters of adware.
Only through careful observation are details slowly uncovered, delivering analysis of where the attack came from, its infection chain, and mitigation strategies
over time. Thus, the speed of converting these discoveries and translating them into mitigation strategies is key to improve the security posture of any
environment rapidly.
Organizations and governments can benefit from advanced Trend Micro solutions that can proactively keep IT environments protected from a wide range of
cybersecurity threats. The Trend Micro XDR solution effectively protects connected emails, endpoints, servers, cloud workloads, and networks. Trend Micro XDR
uses powerful AI and expert security analytics to correlate data, as well as deliver fewer higher-fidelity alerts for early threat detection. In a single console, it provides
a broader perspective of enterprise systems as well as a more focused and optimized set of alerts. This provides IT security teams with better context for identifying
threats more quickly, helping them understand and remediate impact much more effectively.
Meanwhile, Trend Micro Managed XDR provides expert threat monitoring, correlation, and analysis from skilled and seasoned Managed Detection and Response
analysts. Managed XDR is a flexible, 24/7 service that allows organizations to have one single source of detection, analysis, and response. Analyst expertise is
enhanced by Trend Micro solutions that are optimized by AI and enriched by global threat intelligence. The Managed XDR service allows organizations to expand
with the cloud without sacrificing security or overburdening IT teams.
Related Posts:
Old Tools for New Money: URL Spreading Shellbot and XMRig Using 17-year-old XHide
New Fileless Botnet Novter Distributed by KovCoreG Malvertising Campaign
FIN6 Compromised E-commerce Platform via Magecart to Inject Credit Card Skimmers Into Thousands of Online Shops
Outlaw Updates Kit to Kill Older Miner Versions, Targets More Systems
Learn how to protect Enterprises, Small Businesses, and Home Users from ransomware:
ENTERPRISE » SMALL BUSINESS » HOME »
Tags: ChromeIsErIkManageXPUAwscript
0 Comments TrendLabs 🔒 Privacy Policy  1 Login
 Recommend
t Tweet f Share Sort by Best
Start the discussion…
LOG IN WITH OR SIGN UP WITH DISQUS
?
Be the first to comment.
✉ Subscribe d Add Disqus to your siteAdd DisqusAdd
⚠ D N t S ll M D t
Security Predictions for 2020
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/exposing-modular-adware-how-dealply-iserik-and-managex-persist-in-systems/ 9/10
4/17/2020 Exposing Modular Adware: How DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX Persist in Systems - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Cybersecurity in 2020 will be viewed through many lenses — from differing attacker motivations and cybercriminal arsenal to technological developments and
global threat intelligence — only so defenders can keep up with the broad range of threats.
Read our security predictions for 2020.
Business Process Compromise
Attackers are starting to invest in long-term operations that target specific processes enterprises rely on. They scout for vulnerable practices, susceptible
systems and operational loopholes that they can leverage or abuse. To learn more, read our Security 101: Business Process Compromise.
Recent Posts
Exposing Modular Adware: How DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX Persist in Systems
                       April Patch Tuesday: Fixes for Font [Related, Microsoft SharePoint, Windows Components Vulnerabilities](https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/april-patch-tuesday-fixes-for-font-related-microsoft-sharepoint-windows-components-vulnerabilities/)

Coronavirus Update App Leads to Project Spy Android and iOS Spyware
Zoomed In: A Look into a Coinminer Bundled with Zoom Installer
More Than 8,000 Unsecured Redis Instances Found in the Cloud
Popular Posts
Operation Poisoned News: Hong Kong Users Targeted With Mobile Malware via Local News Links
Raccoon Stealer’s Abuse of Google Cloud Services and Multiple Delivery Techniques
More Than 8,000 Unsecured Redis Instances Found in the Cloud
Monero-Mining Malware PCASTLE Zeroes Back In on China, Now Uses Multilayered Fileless Arrival Techniques
                                                         [Operation Overtrap Targets Japanese Online Banking Users Via Bottle Exploit Kit and Brand](https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/operation-overtrap-targets-japanese-online-banking-users-via-bottle-exploit-kit-and-brand-new-cinobi-banking-trojan/) New Cinobi Banking Trojan

Stay Updated
Email Subscription
Your email here
Subscribe
Home and Home Offcei
|
For Business
|
Security Intelligence
|
About Trend Micro
Asia Pacific Region (APAC): Australia / New Zealand, 中国, ⽇本, 대한민국, 台灣
Latin America Region (LAR): Brasil, México
North America Region (NABU): United States, Canada
Europe, Middle East, & Africa Region (EMEA): France, Deutschland / Österreich / Schweiz, Italia, Россия, España, United Kingdom / Ireland
Privacy Statement
Legal Policies
Copyright © 2020 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved.
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/exposing-modular-adware-how-dealply-iserik-and-managex-persist-in-systems/ 10/10