GSM fingerprinting
The most curious plugin in Attor’s arsenal collects information about both connected
modem/phone devices and connected storage drives, and about files present on these drives. It
is responsible for collection of metadata, not the files themselves, so we consider it a plugin used
for device fingerprinting, and hence likely used as a base for further data theft.
While Attor’s functionality of fingerprinting storage drives is rather standard, its fingerprinting of
GSM devices is unique.
Whenever a modem or a phone device is connected to a COM port, Device monitor uses AT
commands to communicate with the device, via the associated serial port.
AT commands, also known as Hayes command set, were originally developed in the 1980s to
command a modem to dial, hang up or change connection settings. The command set was
subsequently extended to support additional functionality, both standardized and vendor-specific.
In a recent paper, it was discovered that the commands are still in use in most modern
smartphones. Those researchers were able to bypass security mechanisms and communicate
with smartphones using AT commands through their USB interface. Thousands of commands
were recovered and tested, including those to send SMS messages, emulate on-screen touch
events, or leak sensitive information. That research illustrates that the old‑school AT commands
pose a serious risk when misused.
As for Attor’s plugin, however, we may only speculate why AT commands are employed. We have
detected a 64‑bit version of this plugin in 2019, and we can confirm it is still a part of the newest
Attor version (that we first saw in 2018). On the other hand, it seems unlikely it is targeting
modern smartphone devices. The plugin ignores devices connected via a USB port, and only
contacts those connected via a serial port (more precisely, devices whose friendly names match
“COM*”).
A more likely explanation of the plugin’s main motive is that it targets modems and older phones.
Alternatively, it may be used to communicate with some specific devices (used by the victim or
target organization) that are connected to the COM port or to the USB port using a USB-to-serial
adaptor. In this scenario, it is possible the attackers have learned about the victim’s use of these
devices using some other reconnaissance techniques.
In any case, the plugin retrieves the following information from the connected devices, using the
AT commands listed in Table 3:
Basic information about the mobile phone or GSM/GPRS modem: name of manufacturer,
model number, IMEI number and software version
Basic information about the subscriber: MSISDN and IMSI number
Table 3. The commands of the AT protocol used by the Device monitor plugin
AT com‐
mand
Functionality
AT Signals start of communication (AT for attention).
AT+MODE=2 Prepares the phone for an extended AT+ command set.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/10/10/eset-discovers-attor-spy-platform/ 10/14
10/11/2019 ESET discovers Attor, a spy platform with curious GSM fingerprinting | WeLiveSecurity
Table 3. The commands of the AT protocol used by the Device monitor plugin
AT+CGSN Requests IMEI number (International Mobile Equipment Identity), which is a unique number
to identify a device.
AT+CGMM Requests information about the model of the device (model number).
AT+CGMI Requests name of the device manufacturer.
AT+CGMR Requests the version of the software loaded on the device.
AT+CNUM Requests MSISDN (Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number), which is the
mapping of the telephone number to the subscriber identity module in a mobile or cellular
phone.
AT+CIMI Requests IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity), which is a unique number identify‐
ing a GSM subscriber. This number has two parts. The initial part is comprised of six digits in
the North American standard and five digits in the European standard. It identifies the GSM
network operator in a specific country with whom the subscriber holds an account. The sec‐
ond part is allocated by the network operator to identify the subscriber uniquely.
Note that many more (vendor-specific) AT commands exist that are not used by this plugin. It is
possible that the malware operators use the listed commands to fingerprint the connected
devices, and then deploy another plugin with more specific commands to extract information from
the device.