Payload Analysis
Even though “winword.pkg” is an executable husk to host malicious code downloaded at the second stage,
it contains a mouse-click check to detect human behaviors. Only if the number of left clicks is three or
more, will the malware proceed further to download the second stage payload – the true malicious code
(see Figure 9 and Figure 10).
Figure 9 Track Number of Left Clicks
Figure 10 Proceed If Left Click Count Is Three Or More
After the malware detects sufficient mouse clicks, it proceeds to decrypt its malicious URL to download
the second stage payload (see Figure 11). By following the TCP stream (see Figure 12) and examining the
header of the downloaded JPG file, it is obvious that downloaded content is not a JPEG file. By doing so, it
effectively downloaded an executable content that is not conformed to PE format to defeat network binary
extraction. A legitimate JPG file should contain the byte sequence “FFD8FFE0xxxx 4A464946 00” at
offset zero, where “ 4A464946” corresponds to “ JFIF ”. Below is the hardcoded URL and user-agent that
is used by this malware sample.
URL: hxxp://kibber.no-ip.org/adserv/logo.jpg
User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; Windows NT 5.1; SV2)
Figure 11 Malicious Domain Decryption
Figure 12 Fake JPG
After the JPG file is downloaded and executed directly in the memory, it achieves persistency by creating a
shortcut link file at the start up folder. This link file will execute a copy of itself located at
“C:\ProgramData\Google2\GoogleUpdate.exe” (see Figure 13). It would look legitimate to users as it
masquerades as a legitimate Google Updater. It “would” appear normal if it attempts to access the
Internet. In comparison, the real “GoogleUpdate.exe” resides in “program files” instead “program data”
directory (see Figure 14).
Figure 13 Persistency Mechanism
Figure 14 Genuine GoogleUpdate.exe
The downloaded “JPG” file was analyzed to be a backdoor in the victim’s machine. It lists the running
processes, IP configuration, and directories of root drives (C to H) as depicted in Figure 15. This
information is posted to hxxp://symbisecure.com/adserv/get.php in Base-64 format. After decoding, it is
interesting that it begins with a Tag named “BaneChant”. After doing a quick search, it seems to be a
sound track composed by Hans Zimmer for the movie “The Dark Knight Rises” (see Figure 16). This is the
reason we name this malware Trojan.APT.BaneChant.
Figure 15 Commands Executed
Figure 16 Exfiltrated Computer Information
As depicted in Figure 17, the malware could perform other tasks as listed below.

Command ‘g’: Download and execute a file. The downloaded file has a temporarily file name

prefixed with “java”.

Command ‘i’: Run downloaded code (fileless) as a separate thread. The user-agent used is

“Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1) AppleWebKit/535.1 (KHTML, like Gecko)”.

Command ‘x’: Download and execute, follow by an uninstallation of “GoogleUpdate.exe”. The

downloaded file has same prefix “java”.

Command ‘u’: Uninstall “GoogleUpdate.exe”

Figure 17 Backdoor Access