Masquerading as a Palestinian Civil Registry application
```
The legitimate Voxer Walkie Talkie
Messenger application, version 4.0.2.22408
(3669119).
The Voxer Walkie Talkie Messenger app
trojanized with AridSpy, distributed under the
name ReblyChat.
Moving on from trojanizing chat applications for the time being, the operators then launched a campaign
distributing an app purporting to be from the Palestinian Civil Registry (ينيطسلفلا يندلما لجسلا). The malicious app
claims to offer general information about the residents of Palestine, such as name, place of residence, date of birth,
ID number, and other information. This campaign provides a malicious Android app available for download
from palcivilreg[.]com, registered on May 30, 2023; see Figure 6. th
Figure 6. palcivilreg[.]com website
Machine translation of the website from Figure 6: “Palestinian Civil Registry. To find out information about any
person or search for any person’s identity number or date of birth, download the application to search the
Palestinian civil registry.”
This website is advertised via a dedicated Facebook page – see Figure 7 – that was created on July 25, 2023 and th
links directly to palcivilreg[.]com . We have reported this page to Facebook.
Figure 7. Facebook page promoting the palcivilreg[.]com website for every Palestinian to
identify personal data
Machine translation of the cover photo visible in Figure 7: “Palestinian Civil Registry. Search for any person’s
name and obtain his full data. Get date of birth and age of any person. Ease of searching and entering the
application.”
Selecting the ليمحت (Download, in Arabic; see Figure 6) button executes myScript.js, initiating download from
a hardcoded URL; see Figure 8. This instance of myScript.js code is slightly changed, compared to previously
mentioned campaigns, but achieves the same results – retrieving a file from a malicious link. This version of the
script can be found in many tutorials available online; one of its first occurrences seems to be from February 2019.
Figure 8. Content of myScript.js file
The Palestinian Civil Registry app is inspired by an app on Google Play that has been available for download since
March 2020 and provides the same functionality as claimed on the palcivilreg[.]com site. The app on
Google Play is linked to the website zezsoft.wuaze[.]com, which allows downloading iOS and Android
apps. At the time of this research, the iOS application was not available, and the Android app link refers to the file
sharing storage site MediaFire, not to Google Play. This app was no longer available from MediaFire, so we are
not able to confirm whether that version was legitimate.
Based on our investigation, the malicious app available on palcivilreg[.]com is not a trojanized version of
the app on Google Play; however, it uses that app’s legitimate server to retrieve information. This means that Arid
Viper was inspired by that app’s functionality but created its own client layer that communicates with the
legitimate server. Most likely, Arid Viper reverse engineered the legitimate Android app from Google Play and
used its server for retrieving victims’ data.