Conclusion
In this blog we uncovered three clusters of intrusions targeting Telcos in ASEAN countries that were active for several years, with one cluster going back as far as 2017. We assess that the goal behind the
intrusions was to facilitate cyber espionage efforts by gaining access to cellular providers for the purpose of exfiltrating sensitive data about the targeted companies and their customers.
Each cluster appears to have its own unique characteristics, distinguishing it from the other clusters detailed in this report. In our report, we also mention the interesting overlaps observed among those
clusters - namely the targeting of the same victims, operating around similar time frames, and in some cases the existence of all three clusters on the same endpoints.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos 31/35
8/4/2021 DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos
According to our analysis, Cluster A was executed by the Soft Cell activity group, a group that is known to have attacked Telcos in the past in multiple regions and believed to be operating on behalf of
Chinese state interests. The intrusions in this cluster span over three years, going back to 2018. The attackers behind it have shown great resourcefulness and adaptiveness in light of mitigation efforts,
finding their way back in repeatedly, which may demonstrate how important it was for them to obtain the data from the targeted Telcos.
Cluster B was discovered in late 2020 and exhibited a different set of tools and techniques, including the rare Nebulae backdoor and the previously undocumented EnrollLogger keylogger. We suspect
that the activity in this cluster was carried out by the Naikon APT group, a very active cyber espionage group previously attributed to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA).
Cluster C is the oldest among the clusters, with first signs of intrusions going back to 2017. This cluster exhibited a rare OWA backdoor that shows considerable code and functionality similarities to
previously documented backdoors that were used by the Group-3390 (APT27), an infamous cyber espionage APT group operating on behalf of Chinese state interests.
Whether these clusters are in fact inter-connected or operated independently from each other is not entirely clear at the time of writing this report. We offered several hypotheses that can account for
these overlaps, hoping that as time goes by more information will be made available to us and to other researchers that will help to shed light on this conundrum.