Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them
microsoft.com /security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-hereshow-to-spot-them
November 30, 2020
Cryptocurrency miners are typically associated with cybercriminal operations, not
sophisticated nation state actor activity. They are not the most sophisticated type of threats,
which also means that they are not among the most critical security issues that defenders
address with urgency. Recent campaigns from the nation-state actor BISMUTH take
advantage of the low-priority alerts coin miners cause to try and fly under the radar and
establish persistence.
BISMUTH, which shares similarities with OceanLotus or APT32, has been running
increasingly complex cyberespionage attacks as early as 2012, using both custom and opensource tooling to target large multinational corporations, governments, financial services,
educational institutions, and human and civil rights organizations. But in campaigns from
July to August 2020, the group deployed Monero coin miners in attacks that targeted both
the private sector and government institutions in France and Vietnam.
Because BISMUTH’s attacks involved techniques that ranged from typical to more advanced,
devices with common threat activities like phishing and coin mining should be elevated and
inspected for advanced threats. More importantly, organizations should prioritize reducing
attack surface and hardening networks against the full range of attacks. In this blog, we’ll
provide in-depth technical details about the BISMUTH attacks in July and August 2020 and
mitigation recommendations for building organizational resilience.
While this actor’s operational goals remained the same—establish continuous monitoring
and espionage, exfiltrating useful information as is it surfaced—their deployment of coin
miners in their recent campaigns provided another way for the attackers to monetize
compromised networks. Considering some of the group’s traditional targets are human and
civil rights organizations, BISMUTH attacks demonstrate how attackers give little regard to
services they impact.
The use of coin miners by BISMUTH was unexpected, but it was consistent with the group’s
longtime methods of blending in. This pattern of blending in is particularly evident in these
recent attacks, starting from the initial access stage: spear-phishing emails that were
specially crafted for one specific recipient per target organization and showed signs of prior
reconnaissance. In some instances, the group even corresponded with the targets, building
even more believability to convince targets to open the malicious attachment and start the
infection chain.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-heres-how-to-spot-them/ 1/8
12/1/2020 Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them - Microsoft Security
The other way that BISMUTH attempted to blend in and hide in plain sight was the heavy
use of DLL side-loading, a technique in which a legitimate DLL is replaced with a malicious
one so that the latter is loaded when the associated application is run. In their recent attacks,
BISMUTH utilized copies of various legitimate software to load malicious DLL files and
perform tasks in the context of these legitimate applications. To perform DLL sideloading,
BISMUTH introduced outdated versions of various applications, including Microsoft
Defender Antivirus. They also leveraged the Sysinternals DebugView tool, the McAfee ondemand scanner, and Microsoft Word 2007.
Blending in was important for BISMUTH because the group spent long periods of time
performing discovery on compromised networks until they could access and move laterally to
high-value targets like servers, where they installed various tools to further propagate or
perform more actions. At this point in the attack, the group relied heavily on evasive
PowerShell scripts, making their activities even more covert.
The coin miners also allowed BISMUTH to hide its more nefarious activities behind threats
that may be perceived to be less alarming because they’re “commodity” malware. If we
learned anything from “commodity” banking trojans that bring in human-operated
ransomware, we know that common malware infections can be indicators of more
sophisticated cyberattacks and should be treated with urgency and investigated and resolved
comprehensively.