Governmental institutions are the most frequently attacked organizations
Since 2017, governmental institutions have topped our rankings of the most
frequently attacked organizations. For their malicious actions, hackers mainly
used malware (63% of attacks) and social engineering techniques (56%). The
exploitation of web vulnerabilities ranks third: the share of this method (22%)
increased by 13 percentage points compared to Q4 2020. Most often, attackers
exploited vulnerabilities that were popular in Q1 2021, such as the ProxyLogon
vulnerability used, for example, in the incident with the Norwegian parliament
and a vulnerability in Accellion FTA, which affected the audit service of the state
of Washington. The APT groups LuckyMouse, Tick, and Calypso, which target
organizations in the United States, Europe, Asia, and the Middle East, including
governmental agencies, were also seen exploiting the ProxyLogon remote code
execution vulnerability (CVE-2021-26855). The purpose of these campaigns was
to obtain data.
The share of ransomware operators in attacks on governmental institutions is
increasing: they were found in 70% of malware attacks. In addition to ransomware,
attackers also used banking trojans (18% of malware attacks), RATs (13%), and
spyware (8%).
100%
54%
37%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
70%
Q1
2020 2021
© Positive Technologies
Figure 19. Ransomware attacks on governmental institutions (percentage of malware-related attacks)
In this context, we should note the February attack on smart city systems in India.
The Economic Times stressed that this is the first attack ever on the infrastructure of
a smart city. The ransomware operators demanded $646,000 for troubleshooting
the problems they created. An equally interesting example is the attack by the
hacker group Hotarus Corp, which managed to hack the network of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance of Ecuador and distribute their ransomware Ronggolawe
(AwesomeWare). The peculiarity of this ransomware is that it is written in PHP and
encrypts the files of the victim company's web applications. During this attack, the
19
credentials of more than 6,500 users were compromised, and sensitive information,
including emails and personal data of employees, was stolen.
Social engineering techniques were used in 56% of the incidents. For example, the
APT group SideWinder, whose activities were monitored by PT ESC, uses these to
deliver malware. Attacks by this group on governmental institutions in Southeast
Asia were recorded throughout Q1 2021. As the first step of the attacks, the hackers
attached a file with a .lnk extension a phishing email. If the user opened the file,
the mshta.exe utility ran, displaying a stub document to the victim to allay its
suspicions, while the main script deployed the trojan. This technique is used by
many APT groups that we talked about in Q2 2020 and Q3 2020.
Figure 20. Sample the phishing email from the APT group SideWinder
for a targeted attack on the Embassy of Pakistan in China
20
About Positive
Technologies
ptsecurity.com
pt@ptsecurity.com
facebook.com/PositiveTechnologies
facebook.com/PHDays