Intoduction
BAHAMUT is the name given to a gigantic sea monster that helps hold up the earth in a genesis
story. Arabic in origin, the story of the Bahamut is included in Edward Lane’s Arabian Society in the
Middle Ages and an excerpt of Lane’s translation appears in Jorge Luis Borges’ Book of Imaginary
Beings . Borges likens the Bahamut to the Biblical Behemoth – a creature “so immense…that human
eyes cannot bear to look at it” (Borges, 1967). Fans of Dungeons & Dragons and of Final Fantasy
will recognize it as the name of a dragon of terrifying power.
BAHAMUT is also the name given to a cyberespionage threat actor by researchers writing for
Bellingcat in 2017. The researchers, Collin Anderson and Claudio Guarnieri, invoked Borges’
description in lieu of any “personally-identifiable information or even descriptive identifiers within
the campaigns” (Anderson & Guarnieri, Bahamut, Pursuing a Cyber Espionage Actor in the Middle
East, 2017). In the same breath, they highlighted the “constant struggle” in attributing attacks to
this group – a sentiment we at BlackBerry appreciate.
Over the years, researchers at several other organizations including Amnesty International,
Kaspersky, Trend Micro, Cymmetria, DarkMatter, ESET, Norman, Antiy, Forcepoint, Symantec, Palo
Alto, Fortinet, 4Hou, bitdefender, Cisco Talos, Microsoft, Qianxin, and others, gave us a different
view of BAHAMUT, often under different names. Many speculated openly about what it was they
were analyzing, and where the group’s distinctive features might lead them. Were they all looking
at the same thing? Drilling down into overlaps in malware, infrastructure, and exploits between
numerous, differently named groups quickly becomes a behemoth of a task.
Defining BAHAMUT is especially difficult in light of the fact that the group is suspected of re-using
other groups’ tools and imitating their tradecraft. BAHAMUT also heavily leverages publicly available
tools that further obscure attribution. The group takes great pains to keep its campaigns, network
infrastructure, and phishing tools separate from one another. Anti-analysis features are often built
directly into backdoors as well as exploit shellcode. When exposed, the group changes tactics
immediately and learns from its mistakes, even when those tactics aren’t explicitly called out in
research. BAHAMUT’s targeting is all over the map, which makes it difficult to concoct a single
victimology. BAHAMUT appears to be not only well-funded and well-resourced, but also well-versed
in security research and the cognitive biases analysts often possess. Taken together, these aspects
present a considerable attribution challenge.
In the pages that follow, we present our best effort at describing BAHAMUT, making the case for
connections between previously identified groups. As always, what follows is an assessment made
with the information available to us at the time of writing; it is not intended to be prescriptive and
should not be taken as such.
We start our journey with a look at the group’s current and historical targeting before moving on to
analyze its recent tradecraft. We end with a serpentine journey through other public research about
the group, and conclude with our own assessments about the true nature of the beast, BAHAMUT.
8