Multi-staged and modular threats
Recent trends in multi-staged and modular malware attacks reveal how this type of attack is becoming
increasingly sophisticated, versatile and persistent. VPNFilter, BlackEnergy, and CobInt are good examples
of this type of attack. It uses different vectors, depending on a pre-assessment conducted to the victim’s
infrastructure, to initiate the attack. The VPNFilter, for example, is able to support the collection of
intelligence about the victim and from the analysis, download additional malware to shape the attack
dynamically.
List of known capabilities for multi-staged and modular threats:

Self-propagates,

643
https://www.zdnet.com/article/hackers-target-winter-olympics-with-new-custom-built-fileless-malware/,
accessed November 2018.
644 https://securitynews.sonicwall.com/xmlpost/powerghost-a-stealthy-miner-with-eternal-blue-component-forspreading-further/, accessed November 2018.
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019


Self-destructs,


Communicates anonymously,


Behaves persistently,


Obfuscates the origin,


Downloads payloads and


Installs in memory.


In July 2018, security researchers described VPNFilter as a sophisticated malware affecting 500,000
networking devices. [645] . The malware - initially affecting Ukrainian hosts - spread over 54 countries at an
alarming rate. Researchers attributed this malware to a Russian state-sponsored hacking group Sofacy
(also known as Fancy Bear and APT28).
The versatile and persistent behaviour of this malware on networking devices generated great concern
among security professionals and authorities around the world. In its multi-stage and modular
capabilities, it is able to support the collection of intelligence, misattribution and destructive cyberattack
operations. Moreover, it has a range of capabilities including data exfiltration, spying on traffic and
ultimately rendering the infected device unbootable. According to the researcher, the malware code
overlaps with versions of the BlackEnergy malware, which was responsible for multiple large-scale attacks
that targeted devices in Ukraine.
Figure 46: VPNFilter kill-chain


Installation – The attacker injects malware into devices running firmware version based on Busybox
and Linux. The main purpose is to gain a persistent foothold and enable the download and
deployment of additional malware in a persistent way.


Command & Control - Utilizes multiple redundant C2 mechanisms to discover the IP address of
deployment servers, making this malware extremely robust and capable of dealing with unpredictable
C2 infrastructure changes.


Actions on Objectives – The attack is executed using a variety of capabilities such as file collection,
command execution, data exfiltration, device management and firmware overwrite among others.
Additionally, the malware introduces multiple modules serving as plugins providing additional
functionality. The researcher identified two plugin modules: a packet sniffer for collecting traffic that
passes through the device including theft of website credentials and monitoring of Modbus SCADA
protocols and a communications module over the TOR network.


Typical attack vectors used:
1) Network propagation/lateral movement.
2) Exploitation of vulnerabilities.
645 https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2018/05/VPNFilter.html, accessed November 2018.
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019
3) Attacking the human element – Phishing.
Related cyberthreats:
Malware, phishing, data breaches, denial of service, exploit kits and cyber espionage.
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019