Introduction
Charming Kitten is an Iranian cyberespionage group operating since approximately 2014 . This report exposes
their vast espionage apparatus, active during 2016-2017. We present incidents of company impersonation,
made up organizations and individuals, spear phishing and watering hole attacks. We analyze their
exploitation, delivery, and command-and-control infrastructure, and expose DownPaper, a malware
developed by the attackers, which has not been publicly documented to date.
Incidents documented in this report are likely a small fraction of the actual amount of targeted attacks,
which may reach thousands of individuals. We expose more than 85 IP addresses, 240 malicious domains,
hundreds of hosts, and multiple fake entities – most of which were created in 2016-2017. The most recent
domains ( com-archivecenter[.]work, com-messengerservice[.]work and com-videoservice[.]work ) were
registered on December 2 [nd], 2017, and have probably not been used in attacks yet.
We present the connection between Behzad Mesri, an Iranian national recently indicted for his involvement
in hacking HBO, and Charming Kitten. We also identify other members of the group.
This report refers to two likely distinct groups, Charming Kitten and Rocket Kitten, together. This is not to
say that the two groups are one, but that due to overlap in infrastructure, tools, targets, and modus
operandi we are unable to precisely attribute each incident to one or the other. Further discussion appears
in the section "Charming Kitten or Rocket kitten?"
Targets
The attackers' focus appears to be individuals of interest to Iran in the fields of Academic research (i.e.
Iranists - Scholars who study Iran), Human right and media . Emphasis is given to Iranian dissidents living in
Iran or abroad, and people who come in touch with Iranians or report on Iranian affairs such as journalists
and reporters, media outlets covering Iran, and political advisors.
Most targets known to us are individuals living in Iran, the United States, Israel, and the UK. Others live in
Turkey, France, Germany, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, India, Denmark and other countries.
Notably, the attackers usually try to gain access to private email and Facebook accounts. They seek to
infiltrate the targets’ social network as a hop point to breach other accounts in their social network, or to
collect information about their targets. Sometimes, they aim at establishing a foothold on the target’s
computer to gain access into their organization, but, based on our data, this is usually not their main
objective, as opposed to other Iranian threat groups, such as Oilrig [1] and CopyKittens [2] .
1 http://www.clearskysec.com/oilrig/
2 http://www.clearskysec.com/tulip/
Page 3 of 59
©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security, 2017