Introduction
Recently, a new series of malware samples were submitted to the major online
sandboxes. We noticed one sample submitted to Virus Total that was attributed
by some experts to the Russian APT28 group.
The APT28 group (aka Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit, Sofacy,
and Strontium) has been active since at least 2007 and it has
targeted governments, militaries, and security organizations worldwide.
The group was involved also in the string of attacks that targeted 2016
Presidential election.
With the help of the researcher that goes online with the Twitter handle Drunk
Binary (@DrunkBinary) we obtained a collection of samples to compare with
the one we were in possession to discover if we were in presence of a new
variant of the infamous APT28 backdoor tracked as X-Agent.
The attack we analyzed is multi-stage, an initial dropper malware written in
Delphi programming language (a language used by the APT28 in other
campaigns) downloads a second stage payload from internet and executes it.
The payload communicates to the server using HTTPS protocol, making it
impossible to eavesdrop on the malicious traffic it generates.
We also analyzed another malicious DLL, apparently unrelated to the previous
samples, that presents many similarities with other payloads attributed to the
Russian APT group. This malware is particularly interesting for us because it
contacts a command and control with the name “ marina-info.net ” a clear
reference to the Italian Military corp, Marina Militare. This lead us into
speculating that the malicious code was developed as part of targeted attacks
against the Italian Marina Militare, or some other entities associated with it.
This last DLL seems to be completely unconnected with the previous samples,
but further investigation leads us into believing that it was an additional
component used by APT28 in this campaign to compromise the target system.
APT28 has a rich arsenal composed of a large number of modular threats and
the dll is the component of the X-Agent we analyzed. X-Agent is a persistent
payload injected into the victim machine that can be compiled for almost any
CSE CyberSec Enterprise SPA
Via G.B. Martini 6, Rome, Italy 00100, Italia
Email: info@csecybsec.com
Website: www.csecybsec.com
Operating System and can be enhanced by adding new ad-hoc component
developed for the specific cyber-attack. In our case, the component was
submitted to online sandboxes while the new campaign was ongoing. We
cannot exclude that the APT group developed the backdoor to target specific
organizations including the Italian Marina Militare or any other subcontractor.
In our analysis we were not able to directly connect the malicious dll file to the
X-Agent samples, but believe they are both part of a well-coordinated surgical
attack powered by APT28.
The dll that connect to “marina-info.net” may be the last stage-malware that is
triggered only when particular conditions occur, for example when the malware
infects a system with an IP address belonging to specific ranges.
CSE CyberSec Enterprise SPA
Via G.B. Martini 6, Rome, Italy 00100, Italia
Email: info@csecybsec.com
Website: www.csecybsec.com