Is “Fei” behind Iron Tiger?
Following virtual aliases related to Iron Tiger allowed us to attribute operational activities to a key
personality—Guo Fei—who resides in Shanghai, China.
Phpxss and exenull
The systematic use of these two nicknames, their use of the same password to encrypt files, and the way they
accessed C&C servers made us believe that only a few key individuals rather than a huge group of people
were behind the campaign. Phpxss was probably a reference to cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities
based on PHP. This choice of nickname made us believe that the actor had ties to traditional cybercrime.
Phpxss had ties to xssok.blogspot.com and phpxss.lofter.com —C&C servers for three Trojans (dnstunnel,
NBDDOS, and PlugX) related to Iron Tiger. The malicious tool, dnstunclient, accesses xssok.blogspot.com
to know what the controlling IP address is. A Gh0st variant, meanwhile, accesses phpxss.lofter.com, which
leads to a C&C server.
Phpxss also serves as username for several email addresses from different free email providers and the
BAIGE-VPN-provided service. One of the subdomains under shangxian.info that points to a C&C server
has also been registered with the name, “php xss,” and the email address, [REDACTED]s @ gmail . com.
8 | Operation Iron Tiger
```
   Registrant Email: [REDACTED]s @ gmail . com
Registrant Name: php xss
Registrant Organization:
Registrant Street: shanghairoad
Registrant City: shanghai
Registrant State/Province: sldkkk
Registrant Postal Code: 200000
Registrant Country: CN
Registrant Phone: +86.[REDACTED]53232
```
Whois information tied to shangxian.info and registered by php xss
We also found a blog comment with the name, “phpxss,” which led to an email address; a QQ number
(693149); and the name, “Guo Fei.” Additional research on the QQ number led us to a person named
“郭飞,” which translates to “Guo Fei.” The name, “exenull,” meanwhile, was used by the same person to
register on target sites or forums.
Comment by phpxss linked to a Gmail account
and QQ number owned by Guo Fei
Phpxss’s geographical information
9 | Operation Iron Tiger
QQ Insight Labs overview of the QQ number, “693149”
More information on the QQ number, “693149”
Ershao and myershao
Ershao and myershao were other nicknames tied to the name, “Guo Fei.” These were found in leaked
underground forum databases and had ties to the same QQ number that phpxss used. A related email
address found in underground forums, [REDACTED]o @ live . cn, was also used to register the domain,
mai1.info, which had ties to Iron Tiger.
10 | Operation Iron Tiger