CRYPTOGRAPHIC ROUTINES
Data transmission from the attacker’s server to the client is protected by a custom
cryptosystem (Figure 3) leveraging a symmetric cipher (AES), that protects the data
payload and an asymmetric cipher (RSA) to protect the symmetric key. The custom
cryptosystem leverages a public Action Script library for low level operations.
Figure 3: Generic network retrieval and decrypt routine
Data transmission is initiated by the client, whereby the client HTTP POSTs a randomly
generated RSA modulus n and the exponent 0x10001, and the server responds with the
following structure:
0x0: Encrypted AES key length (L)
0x4: Encrypted AES key
0x4+L: AES IV
0x14+L: AES encrypted data payload
Figure 4: Structure of encrypted data
To decrypt the data payload, the client decrypts the encrypted AES key using its randomly
generated private key, then decrypts the data payload with the decrypted AES key.
The extra layer of public key cryptography, with a randomly generated key, is crucial here.
By using it, one must either recover the randomly generated key or crack the RSA
encryption to analyze subsequent layers of the attack. If implemented correctly, this
renders packet capture in forensic analysis and automated security products ineffective.
Furthermore, the decrypted data payloads will only reside in memory, challenging
traditional disk forensics and non-volatile artifact analysis.
In this scenario, the attacker chose an RSA modulus length of 512 bits, which is considered
insecure by today’s standards and may be cracked with notable effort. Consequently,
offline analysis is possible, although more laborious than online analysis, whereby the
analyst may either instrument a mock victim or create a man-in-the-middle service, then
attempt to be exploited by the attacker.
The combination of a remotely included Flash exploit and asymmetric cryptography are
particularly powerful counters against postmortem analysis. Once exploited, the only
artifact residing on the victim’s system would be the initial lure document that only contains
a URL. In that scenario, responders may look to network packet captures to recreate the
attack. However, without the victim’s randomly created private key, it would be impossible
for responders to decrypt the attacker’s code and recover subsequent protected stages
like the exploit or payload. In this scenario, responders’ only saving grace would be the use
of a weak RSA modulus.