Installation
Export 15 is the first export called when the .dll file is loaded for the first time. It is responsible for checking that
the threat is running on a compatible version of Windows, checking whether the computer is already infected or
not, elevating the privilege of the current process to system, checking what antivirus products are installed, and
what the best process to inject into is. It then injects the .dll file into the chosen process using a unique injection
technique described in the Injection Technique section and calls export 16.
Figure 10
Control flow for export 15
The first task in export 15 is to check if the configuration data is up-to-date. The configuration data can be
stored in two locations. Stuxnet checks which is most up-to-date and proceeds with that configuration data.
Next, Stuxnet determines if it is running on a 64-bit machine or not; if the machine is 64-bit the threat exits.
At this point it also checks to see what operating system it is running on. Stuxnet will only run on the following
operating systems:
  - Win2K


  - WinXP


  - Windows 2003


  - Vista


  - Windows Server 2008


  - Windows 7


  - Windows Server 2008 R2

If it is not running on one of these operating systems it will exit.
Next, Stuxnet checks if it has Administrator rights on the computer. Stuxnet wants to run with the highest privi­
lege possible so that it will have permission to take whatever actions it likes on the computer. If it does not have
Administrator rights, it will execute one of the two zero-day escalation of privilege attacks described below.
If the process already has the rights it requires it proceeds to prepare to call export 16 in the main .dll file. It calls
export 16 by using the injection techniques described in the Injection Technique section.
When the process does not have Adminstrator rights on the system it will try to attain these privileges by using
one of two zero-day escalation of privilege attacks. The attack vector used is based on the operating system
of the compromised computer. If the operating system is Windows Vista, Windows 7, or Windows Server 2008
R2 the currently undisclosed Task Scheduler Escalation of Privilege vulnerability is exploited. If the operating
system is Windows XP or Windows 2000 the Windows Win32k.sys Local Privilege Escalation vulnerability (MS10-
073) is exploited.
If exploited, both of these vulnerabilities result in the main .dll file running as a new process, either within the
csrss.exe process in the case of the win32k.sys vulnerability or as a new task with Adminstrator rights in the
case of the Task Scheduler vulnerability.
The code to exploit the win32k.sys vulnerability is stored in resource 250. Details of the Task Scheduler vulner­
ability currently are not released as patches are not yet available. The Win32k.sys vulnerability is described in
the Windows Win32k.sys Local Privilege Escalation vulnerability (MS10-073) section.
After export 15 completes the required checks, export 16 is called.
Export 16 is the main installer for Stuxnet. It checks the date and the version number of the compromised com­
puter; decrypts, creates and installs the rootkit files and registry keys; injects itself into the services.exe process
to infect removable drives; injects itself into the Step7 process to infect all Step 7 projects; sets up the global
mutexes that are used to communicate between different components; and connects to the RPC server.
Figure 11
Infection routine flow
Export 16 first checks that the configuration data is valid, after that it checks the value “NTVDM TRACE” in the
following registry key:
If this value is equal to 19790509 the threat will exit. This is thought to be an infection marker or a “do not
infect” marker. If this is set correctly infection will not occur. The value may be a random string and represent
nothing, but also appears to match the format of date markers used in the threat. As a date, the value may be
May 9, 1979. This date could be an arbitrary date, a birth date, or some other significant date. While on May 9,
1979 a variety of historical events occured, according to Wikipedia “Habib Elghanian was executed by a firing
squad in Tehran sending shock waves through the closely knit Iranian Jewish community. He was the first Jew
and one of the first civilians to be executed by the new Islamic government. This prompted the mass exodus of
the once 100,000 member strong Jewish community of Iran which continues to this day.” Symantec cautions
readers on drawing any attribution conclusions. Attackers would have the natural desire to implicate another
party.
Next, Stuxnet reads a date from the configuration data (offset 0x8c in the configuration data). If the current date
is later than the date in the configuration file then infection will also not occur and the threat will exit. The date
found in the current configuration file is June 24, 2012.
Stuxnet communicates between different components via global mutexes. Stuxnet tries to create such a global
mutex but first it will use SetSecurityDescriptorDacl for computers running Windows XP and also the SetSecuri­
tyDescriptorSacl API for computers running Windows Vista or later to reduce the integrity levels of objects, and
thus ensure no write actions are denied.
Next, Stuxnet creates 3 encrypted files. These files are read from the .stub section of Stuxnet; encrypted and
written to disk, the files are:


The main Stuxnet payload .dll file is saved as Oem7a.pnf


A 90 byte data file copied to %SystemDrive%\inf\mdmeric3.PNF


The configuration data for Stuxnet is copied to %SystemDrive%\inf\mdmcpq3.PNF


A log file is copied to %SystemDrive%\inf\oem6C.PNF


Then Stuxnet checks the date again to ensure the current date is before June 24, 2012.
Subsequently Stuxnet checks whether it is the latest version or if the version encrypted on disk is newer. It does
this by reading the encrypted version from the disk, decrypting it, and loading it into memory. Once loaded Stux­
net calls export 6 from the newly loaded file; export 6 returns the version number of the newly loaded file from
the configuration data. In this way Stuxnet can read the version number from its own configuration data and
compare it with the version number from the file on disk. If the versions match then Stuxnet continues.
Provided that the version check passed, Stuxnet will extract, decode, and write two files from the resources sec­
tion to disk. The files are read from resource 201 and 242 and are written to disk as “Mrxnet.sys“ and “Mrxcls.
sys” respectively. These are two driver files; one serves as the load point and the other is used to hide malicious
files on the compromised computer and to replace the Stuxnet files on the disk if they are removed. The mechan­
ics of these two files are discussed in the Load Point and Rootkit Functionality sections respectively. When these
files are created the file time on them is changed to match the times of other files in the system directory to
avoid suspicion. Once these files have been dropped Stuxnet creates the registry entries necessary to load these
files as services that will automatically run when Windows starts.
Once Stuxnet has established that the rootkit was installed correctly it creates some more global mutexes to
signal that installation has occurred successfully.
Stuxnet passes control to two other exports to continue the installation and infection routines. Firstly, it injects
the payload .dll file into the services.exe process and calls export 32, which is responsible for infecting newly
connected removable drives and for starting the RPC server. Secondly, Stuxnet injects the payload .dll file into
the Step7 process S7tgtopx.exe and calls export 2. In order to succeed in this action, Stuxnet may need to kill the
explorer.exe and S7tgtopx.exe processes if they are running. Export 2 is used to infect all Step7 project files as
outlined in the Step7 Project File Infection section.
From here execution of Stuxnet continues via these 2 injections and via the driver files and services that were
created.
Stuxnet then waits for a short while before trying to connect to the RPC server that was started by the export
32 code. It will call function 0 to check it can successfully connect and then it makes a request to function 9 to
receive some information, storing this data in a log file called oem6c.pnf.
At this time, all the default spreading and payload routines have been activated.