Remote work raises the importance of secure cloud computing
When the COVID-19 lockdowns began in March 2020, people and workplaces began a rapid and
unprecedented transition that continues to this day. How we work, go to school, attend events and
conferences, and entertain ourselves may have changed forever, and cloud computing was an essential
element of that rapid evolution, but it faces a lot of challenges.
The overprovisioning of access permissions, limited visibility of assets and resources in the cloud and a
lack of auditing, can all make cloud environments more vulnerable to cyberthreats and malware is about as
bad in the cloud as it is everywhere else. For instance, cryptojacking is a growing problem in the cloud. The
computing-cycles-heavy cryptominer processes are bad enough when they run on physical machines, and
run up the electricity bill; they create an even more painful side effect when they run on cloud instances:
The target gets billed by the cloud provider for the CPU cycles consumed by its virtual workstations
performing the heavy math required to deliver a few pennies’ worth of cryptocurrency.
Further, many dispersed, remote workforces have been hit by ransomware attacks, where criminals locked
down the cloud infrastructure the same way they targeted physical machines. After all, ransomware can
encrypt a virtual hard drive or object storage just as easily as physical storage. Organizations whose cloud
infrastructure is attacked with ransomware can find themselves hit not only with a bill for the cycles spent
encrypting the data, but for the ransom, too.
Organizations suffering security incidents in the last year
Malware
Exposed Data
Ransomware
Account
Compromise
Cryptojacking
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
Fig.20. In our 2020 Cloud Security Report, Sophos surveyed more than 3,500 IT professionals about their experience using the cloud, and found that many of
the security problems plaguing physical networks have translated over to the virtual ones. Source: SophosLabs.
On lockdown, IT departments needed a way to service a virtual helpdesk like they staffed a real one before
many workplaces closed down. The big changes COVID-19 demanded came in three waves.
In the first few weeks after the lockdowns began, the first wave – an access wave – began to take shape.
As millions of workers, suddenly unable to go to their workplace, needed to access resources inside their
organization’s environment, rapidly growing demand for virtual private network (VPN) or other zero-trust
facility access overwhelmed existing resources. Along with VPNs, organizations found they needed to add
new firewalls and other security appliances, deployments of modern unified threat management systems
supplemented the rudimentary layer 3 firewalls provided by cloud services.
In the pre-COVID-19 world, VPNs only saw moderate use as employees in the workplace vastly
outnumbered traveling or remote workers. As March turned into May and then June, for these workers, the
VPN became an essential lifeline (if not the essential lifeline) that kept organizations in operation.
November 2020 25
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
But those organizations also quickly realized that employees shouldn’t use personal devices from home to
access the VPN, and a dwindling supply of new laptops created a new challenge for organizations already
struggling with the IT needs of a distributed workforce. Without enough physical machines, for the time
being, organizations turned to the seemingly unlimited resource of virtual machines to fill the need for a
secure computing workspace. That began the second wave – the virtual desktop wave.
As more employees transitioned into using a virtual corporate desktop, the move to hosting those desktops
in the cloud made practical and cost sense, but they still required protection.
Suddenly, IT departments supported hundreds or thousands of employee VMs, and suddenly needed
visibility tools to be able to inventory and securely configure the growing cloud estate of virtual servers,
virtual desktops, and other cloud services – the cloud management wave.
Attack Timeline
Access keys 
stolen
(from SCM)
Attacker 
accesses cloud
account
Monitors
account
activity
Automates
provisioning
of instances
Hardens
settings and
revokes access
Fig.21. A cryptojacking attack we investigated began when a developer inadvertently embedded their cloud credentials into code on a public repository.
The attacker discovered, then used those credentials to attack, using the native cloud provider’s APIs – spinning up hundreds of VM instances to mine Bitcoin.
At the same time, they automated features on those instances to make them harder to terminate. Later, they revoked access to other legitimate users.
Source: SophosLabs.
The COVID-19 era has been marked by great transformation in every aspect of human life, including how
many work. In a recent survey by Reuters, 97% of CEOs and CTOs surveyed said that the lockdowns sped
up their transition to new technology. But in times of tight budgets and uncertainty, nearly one out of every
three of those CTOs reported their mandate was to implement these changes in as cost-effective a way
possible.
In Sophos’ most recent Cloud Security Report, we found that the majority of security incidents
involving cloud computing came down to two primary root causes: stolen or phished credentials, or
misconfigurations that led to breaches. Seven out of ten of the more than 3,700 IT professionals surveyed
for the report claimed that the cloud infrastructure they support had experienced a breach in the 12 months
prior to the survey.
November 2020 26
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT