The VOHO campaign
The VOHO campaign, first publicized by RSA, is one of the
largest and most successful watering-hole attacks to date.
The campaign combined both regional and industry-specific
attacks and predominantly targeted organizations that
operate in the United States. In a rapidly spreading twophase attack, which started on June 25 and finished July 18,
nearly 4,000 machines had downloaded a malicious payload.
These payloads were being delivered to unsuspecting
victims from legitimate websites that were strategically
compromised.
This watering-hole infection technique was quite innovative
at the time. In a watering-hole attack, the attacker
compromises a legitimate website that the target uses and
trusts. The attacker then lies in wait for the target to visit
the compromised site in order to infect them. The scale and
targeted nature of the VOHO campaign set it apart from
watering-hole attacks observed in the past. The group first
adopted this technique in December 2011 when an exploit
for the Oracle Java SE Rhino Script Engine Remote Code
Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2011-3544) was leveraged to
distribute their payloads. As a result of their success, many
other strategic compromises have
been adopted by other attack groups,
as seen in a notable attack targeting
iOS developers earlier in 2013 which
impacted employees at Facebook,
Apple and Twitter.
Figure 5. The VOHO campaign target regions and
industries
In the VOHO campaign, ten legitimate
websites were strategically
compromised. The attackers carefully
selected these websites based on
the likelihood that the intended
target(s) would visit them during the
exploit delivery phase. The attackers
likely pre-determined who visited
the watering-hole in advance of the
distribution phase of attack. This
could easily be achieved by examining
the access logs of compromised Web
servers. The categories of websites
compromised were both regional
and industry-specific in nature and
targeted the following key areas
illustrated in Figure 5.
Figure 6. The VOHO campaign malicious activity timeline -
a two-phase attack
Page 10
Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire