Pricing model
Building commercial spyware is a sophisticated and research-driven process. It involves
meticulously circumventing, bypassing and exploiting security controls put in place by
mobile applications/packages and Operating Systems such as Android and iOS.
Combining such potent software into a package with zero or one-click zero-day exploits
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 4/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
makes it a highly reliable offensive “solution” – and that is exactly what makes it
expensive. As early as 2016, The New York Times reported that the NSO Group charged
$650,000 for every 10 infections, with an additional $500,000 for initial setup. Multi-year
deals between the NSO Group and Mexico were estimated to be around $15 million –
and this was back in 2013.
Fast forward five years to 2021, and another disclosure from The New York Times
details the proposal brochure for Intellexa’s Predator framework offering their solution for
a whopping 13.6 million Euros for:
20 concurrent infections.
One-click exploit for initial access.
Predator C2 and administrative hardware and software.
Project plans, documentation, etc.
12 months of warranty support.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 5/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
Proposal (snipped) defining price and items
Leaked documents from 2022 show that the Nova platform, which is Intellexa’s data-
gathering module, was priced at 8 million Euros in 2022. Price tags of 13.6 million or
even 8 million Euros is a hefty sum. However, this reinforces the fact that commercial
spyware such as those from Intellexa is neither for the common man nor for petty
crimeware operators. These solutions are meant for customers with deep pockets and
such expenses can only be incurred by state-sponsored agencies.
The pricing model also shows the technological evolution of the product. Based on the
leaked proposal dates in July 2022, Intellexa had already incorporated boot survivability
into the Android solution. It also increased the support for Android to 18 months. At this
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 6/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
point, it is unclear if this is the direct result of Intellexa’s development and research
capabilities, or if these are based on exploits acquired that ultimately would result in
having such capabilities.
The original persistence mechanism on iOS was the exploitation of the original
vulnerability during the boot process by loading the malicious HTML page stored locally.
As such, the newly introduced Android persistence mechanism can simply be based on
a similar method.