Key Findings
Lookout and EFF researchers have identified a new threat actor,
Dark Caracal.

Our research shows that Dark Caracal may be administering its

tooling out of the headquarters of the General Directorate of
General Security (GDGS) in Beirut, Lebanon.

The GDGS gathers intelligence for national security purposes and

for its offensive cyber capabilities according to previous reports.
We have identified four Dark Caracal personas with overlapping
TTP (tools, techniques, and procedures).

Dark Caracal is using the same infrastructure as was previously

seen in the Operation Manul campaign, which targeted journalists,
lawyers, and dissidents critical of the government of Kazakhstan.
Dark Caracal has been conducting a multi-platform, APT-level
surveillance operation targeting individuals and institutions globally.

Dark Caracal has successfully run numerous campaigns in parallel

and we know that the data we have observed is only a small
fraction of the total activity.
We have identified hundreds of gigabytes of data exfiltrated from
thousands of victims, spanning 21+ countries in North America,
Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.
The mobile component of this APT is one of the first we’ve seen
executing espionage on a global scale.

Analysis shows Dark Caracal successfully compromised the

devices of military personnel, enterprises, medical professionals,
activists, journalists, lawyers, and educational institutions.

Dark Caracal targets also include governments, militaries,

utilities, financial institutions, manufacturing companies, and
defense contractors.
Types of exfiltrated data include documents, call records, audio
recordings, secure messaging client content, contact information,
text messages, photos, and account data.
3 “https://www.threatconnect.com/blog/how-to-investigate-incidents-in-threatconnect/”
2
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT

Dark Caracal follows the typical attack chain for cyber-espionage.

They rely primarily on social media, phishing, and in some cases
physical access to compromise target systems, devices, and accounts.
Dark Caracal uses tools across mobile and desktop platforms.


Dark Caracal uses mobile as a primary attack platform.


Dark Caracal purchases or borrows mobile and desktop tools from


actors on the dark web.

Lookout discovered Dark Caracal’s custom-developed mobile

surveillanceware (that we call Pallas) in May 2017. Pallas is found in
trojanized Android apps.

Dark Caracal has also used FinFisher, a tool created by a “lawful

intercept” company that is regularly abused by other nation-state actors.

Dark Caracal makes extensive use of Windows malware called

Bandook RAT. Dark Caracal also uses a previously unknown, multi
platform tool that Lookout and EFF have named CrossRAT, which is
able to target Windows, OSX, and Linux.
Dark Caracal uses a constantly evolving, global infrastructure.
Lookout and EFF researchers have identified parts of Dark
Caracal’s infrastructure, providing us with unique insight into
its global operations.

The infrastructure operators prefer to use Windows and XAMPP

software on their C2 servers rather than a traditional LAMP stack, which
provides a unique fingerprint when searching for related infrastructure.
Lookout and EFF have identified infrastructure shared by
Operation Manul and Dark Caracal as well as other actors.
Attributing Dark Caracal was difficult as the actor employs
multiple types of malware, and our analysis suggests the
infrastructure is also being used by other groups.
Lookout and EFF are releasing more than 90 indicators of
compromise (IOC):


11 Android malware IOCs


26 desktop malware IOCs


60 domains, IP Addresses, and WHOIS information


3