The art and science of detecting Cobalt Strike
Next, three restricted classes are loaded:
• sun.org.mozilla.javascript.internal.Context
•
sun.org.mozilla.javascript.internal.DefiningClassLoader
• sun.org.mozilla.javascript.internal.GeneratedClassLoader
This is now used to load the BeanHelper() class included
with the Smart Applet and execute it under a privileged
context by calling `AccessController.doPrivileged()’, as
shown in Figure 41.
And the security manager is disabled... again.
Detection
The amount of devices running Java is astoundingly
high still in 2020. It still continues to be a widely used
language and commonly installed utility for users. These
vulnerabilities are pretty old, but for the Smart Applet to be
effective, the amount of vulnerable devices is likely still high
enough to warrant them being included.
Now, detection here was the easiest part. Remember
how the landing page was extremely similar to the Signed
Applet module? Additionally, main.dll/main64.dll is again
included in the Smart Applet JAR. We already covered it
with the same detection. Case closed on some old Java
vulnerabilities with prior coverage.
TARGET MODULE: SYSTEM PROFILER
This module is designed to perform reconnaissance on
systems visiting a Cobalt Strike-controlled web server. It is
important to note that this module is not intended to infect a
host, but rather supply information on the operating system
and applications installed on a target.
Figure 42
Figure 41
Payload
When an operator configures the system profiler, there are
two options for gathering the desired information. The first
one utilizes a large JavaScript file that leverages multiple
ActiveX controls to gather information. The second is an
optional Java Applet, a common theme we’ve seen in
Cobalt Strike, to supply additional information on top of the
JS. The final configuration option is a redirect. This makes
the victim client redirect to another page after performing
profiling the system.
The initial landing page for the system profiler delivers a
page with code similar to Figure 42:
Let’s glance over both types for a high-level overview.
Java Applet
The initial landing page checks to see if Java is installed and
enabled in two different ways. First, it uses deployJava.
geJREs() to return an array of installed versions, or an
empty array if not present. The second is `navigator.
© 2020 Cisco. All rights reserved. talos-external@cisco.com | talosintelligence.com page 24 of 29