Dark Covenant: Connections Between the Russian State and Criminal Actors
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | RUSSIA
This report examines the unspoken connections between the
Russian Federation (in the form of Russian intelligence services or the
Kremlin) and cybercriminals in Russia and Eastern Europe. Sources
include the Recorded Future® Platform as well as other dark web and
open sources. The report will be of interest to threat researchers, as well
as law enforcement, government, and defense organizations.
Executive Summary
​The intersection of individuals in the Russian
cybercriminal world and officials in the Russian
government, typically from the domestic law enforcement
or intelligence services, is well established yet highly
diffuse. The relationships in this ecosystem are based
on spoken and unspoken agreements and comprise fluid
associations.
Recorded Future identified 3 types of links between
the Russian intelligence services and the Russian
criminal underground based on historical activity and
associations, as well as recent ransomware attacks:
direct links, indirect affiliations, and tacit agreement.
Even in cases with discernible, direct links between
cybercriminal threat actors and the Russian state,
indirect affiliations suggest collaboration, and a lack of
meaningful punitive actions shows either a tolerance for,
or tacit approval of, these efforts. This assessment takes
into account that the Russian government possesses
a robust surveillance apparatus and interfaces with
cybercriminal elements and therefore has visibility into,
if not control over, many of the resources used by these
threat actors and can shut them down if they so desire.
Key Judgments

Based on historical activity, it is highly likely

that Russian intelligence services and law
enforcement have a longstanding, tacit
understanding with criminal threat actors;
in some cases, it is almost certain that the
intelligence services maintain an established
and systematic relationship with criminal threat
actors, either through association or recruitment.

Precedent suggests that such activities and

associations will almost certainly continue for the
foreseeable future; however, these associations
will likely adapt to provide greater plausible
deniability and fewer overt, direct links between
both groups.

The open assertion made by US President Joe

Biden that Russian cybercriminals are protected
by the Russian government has placed Russian
President Vladimir Putin on the defensive,
forcing Russian domestic law enforcement to
demonstrate that they are cracking down on
ransomware operators.

Following the disappearance of ransomware

operators like REvil, we see other groups
emerging in their stead and publicly committing
to reforming their operations, including the
refusal to attack critical infrastructure targets,
which may be seen as a preliminary sign that the
Biden administration’s ultimatum to Russia has
been successful, but it is still too early to gauge
how great its long-term effect will be.

If the Biden administration can persuade the

Kremlin that bringing cybercriminal activity under
some form of control is in their best interest — by
granting sanctions relief, increased collaboration,
or economic agreements — these immediate
reforms may be substantive and long-lasting.
1 CTA-RU-2021-0909 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | RUSSIA