Acknowledgments
This investigation is a result of a collaboration between the Information Warfare Monitor and the Shadowserver
Foundation. Our ability to share critical information and analytical insights within a dedicated group of
professionals allowed us to uncover and investigate the operation of the network documented in this report.
The Information Warfare Monitor (infowar-monitor.net) is a joint activity of the Citizen Lab, Munk School
of Global Affairs, University of Toronto, and the SecDev Group, an operational consultancy based in Ottawa
specialising in evidence-based research in countries and regions under threat of insecurity and violence. The
Shadowserver Foundation (shadowserver.org) was established in 2004 and is comprised of volunteer security
professionals that investigate and monitor malware, botnets, and malicious attacks. Both the Information
Warfare Monitor and the Shadowserver Foundation aim to understand and accurately report on emerging cyber
threats as they develop.
Steven Adair is a security researcher with the Shadowserver Foundation. He frequently analyzes malware, tracks
botnets, and deals with cyber attacks of all kinds with a special emphasis on those linked to cyber espionage.
Ron Deibert is Director of the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto. He is
a co-founder and principal investigator of the OpenNet Initiative and Information Warfare Monitor. He is Vice
President, Policy and Outreach, Psiphon Inc., and a principal with the SecDev Group.
Rafal Rohozinski is CEO of the SecDev Group and Psiphon Inc. He is a co-founder and principal investigator of
the OpenNet Initiative and Information Warfare Monitor, and a senior research advisor at the Citizen Lab, Munk
School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto.
Nart Villeneuve is the Chief Security Officer at the SecDev Group, Director of Operations of Psiphon Inc. and
a senior SecDev research fellow at the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto
where he focuses on electronic surveillance, targeted malware and politically motivated digital attacks.
Greg Walton conducted and coordinated the primary field-based research for the Shadow investigation in His
Holiness the Dalai Lama’s Office and the Tibetan Government-in-Exile in Dharamsala, India. Greg is a SecDev
Group associate and editor of the Information Warfare Monitor website. He is the SecDev Fellow at the Citizen
Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto.
This report represents a collective activity and numerous others also contributed to the research effort. This
includes individuals in India, who for security reasons we cannot name. We are also grateful to the Office of His
Holiness the Dalai Lama. The research of the Citizen Lab and the Information Warfare Monitor is supported by
a generous grant from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, in-kind and staff contributions from
the SecDev Group, and a generous donation of software from Palantir Technologies Inc. We are very grateful to
Masashi Crete-Nishihata (Citizen Lab) and Arnav Manchanda (SecDev Group) for research assistance, and to
Jane Gowan (Agent 5 Design and Citizen Lab) for layout and design.
JR03-2010 Shadows in the Cloud - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY IV