INITIAL ACCESS
F-Secure’s investigation revealed that a system administrator from the target organization received a phishing
document via their personal LinkedIn account. The document masqueraded as a legitimate job advert for a
role in a blockchain technology company that matched the employee’s skills.
Though the document on the target’s host had been altered to remove malicious content after execution,
F-Secure assessed that the original document was the same, or similar to, a sample publicly available on
VirusTotal [5] (see image below). This was based on metadata analysis and execution evidence noted in the
System Resource Usage Monitor (SRUM) database.
Figure 1: Malicious document listed by VirusTotal
Metadata analysis showed the document and VirusTotal sample shared identical values for the document
name, author, last saved by, and word count properties. The creation time and character count were not
identical, but similar enough to suggest a relationship between the two documents.
5 https://www.virustotal.com/gui/file/7446efa798cfa7908e78e7fb2bf3ac57486be4d2edea8a798683c949d504dee6/details
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 2
Figure 2: Target’s malicious document metadata
However, the document’s file sizes were different—181,248 bytes vs 289,280 bytes. The Master File Table (MFT) entry for this document suggests that it
could have been modified roughly thirty minutes after it was created.
Figure 3: Target’s malicious document MFT entries
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 3
When reviewing the LNK (link) file on the target host relating to the document, the original file size can be
seen in the “target file size” field. This file size is identical to the malicious VirusTotal sample, providing another
strong link between the two documents.
Figure 4: Target’s malicious document LNK metadata
As can be seen in the below image, the malicious version of the document claimed to be protected by General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and that content needed to be enabled in Word to access the document.
The enablement of content would then result in the malicious embedded macro code to execute.
Figure 5: Malicious document GDPR content
The malicious execution chain was then the same as noted in the JPCERT report [6], where the macro in the
document creates an LNK file that resulted in the execution of mshta.exe to call out to a “bit.ly” link created in
early May 2019.
6 https://blogs.jpcert.or.jp/en/2019/07/spear-phishing-against-cryptocurrency-businesses.html
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 4
The link was accessed 73 times from several countries, as noted in Figure 6 below. Some of these were likely
researchers, however, the spike in May, and the countries with high counts, led F-Secure to assess that this was
a relatively widely-targeted lure document.
Figure 6: “bit.ly” link access statistics
The “bit.ly” link redirected to a domain from which a VBScript was executed to perform checks on the host and
collect further information to send to a second Command and Control (C2) domain. This script and execution
chain are covered in more detail in the Weibu Intelligence Bureau report [7] .
In the F-Secure investigation, this eventually led to the download and execution of a PowerShell script that
retrieved a further payload from a third C2 domain. Shortly after this payload was retrieved, the main implants
used by Lazarus Group appeared on the target host.
Once the initial chain of infection had executed, the main implant leveraged against the target was
downloaded and loaded in to the l sass.exe process. Evidence of this execution was captured within the SRUM
database as well as the data transferred to and from the target host (see screenshot below). Note, the entry
7 https://x.threatbook.cn/nodev4/vb4/article?threatInfoID=2371
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 5
time is not accurate and reflects the time written to the database rather than the time of execution, which
usually accounts for activity across the previous hour.
Figure 7: System Resource Usage Monitor (SRUM) database entries
This infection chain appeared to be highly conditional based on information retrieved from the target, and
notably differs across other public reporting of the campaign. The different possible execution chains
observed by F-Secure are detailed in the diagram below.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 6
Figure 8: Infection chain
F-Secure leveraged additional available data to pivot from this observed activity to further phishing artefacts,
assessed to be part of a wider campaign running since at least January 2018. Artifacts identified were linked to
fourteen countries, suggesting this was a wide-ranging global campaign. Those countries were: US, CN, UK,
CA, DE, RU, KR, AR, SG, HK, NL, EE, JP & PH. The Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) relating to these artefacts
are included in the appendices below.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 7