Defensive Recommendations
Electric sector asset owners and operators can implement the following host and network based
recommendations to improve the defensibility of their OT environments.


CONSEQUENCE-DRIVEN Identify and prioritize critical assets (crown jewels) and connections, and
process consequences of cyberattacks. [42] Perform threat assessments to scope the most impactful risk
of disruptive or destructive attacks and use such data to shape threat hunting and defensive postures.
While CIP-002 impacts over 1,500 utilities in North America and forces an impact-based discussion of
cybersecurity and reliability, that is only from the Bulk Electric System perspective. It is recommended
that utilities perform their own consequence-driven analysis for improved security on assets and
systems that may impact their operations—and leverage a risk-based security approach outside of
NERC CIP programs. Smaller utilities may not have in-scope facilities, yet could have impacts to their
local communities (including distribution assets, where there are no NERC CIP requirements).


THIRD-PARTIES Ensure that third-party connections and ICS interactions are monitored and logged,
from a “Trust, but Verify” mindset. Where possible, isolate or create DMZs for such access to ensure
that third-party access does not result in complete, unfettered, or unmonitored access to the entire ICS
network. Implement features such as jump hosts, bastion hosts, and secure remote authentication
schema wherever possible. In-scope systems for the upcoming CIP-013 implementation should
leverage an enterprise-wide supply chain risk management program, where appropriate. Dragos
recommends using threat information and consequence-driven analysis to address supply chain cyber
risk.


RESPONSE PLANS Develop, review, and practice cyberattack response plans and integrate cyber
investigations into root-cause analysis for all events. Especially consider intelligent adversaries which
may also attack plans during remediation and response to increase disruption scale and downtime.
Where required, consider leveraging CIP-008 and CIP-009 exercises to review the controls and across
the entire utility security program to provide additional resilience to utility operations.


ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT Expanding on the requirements from CIP-007, which applies system security
management controls for in-scope BES Cyber Systems, ensure all devices and services do not use


42 https://dragos.com/resource/dependency-modeling-for-identifying-cybersecurity-crown-jewels-in-an-ics-environment/
©2019 Dragos, Inc. All rights reserved. [Protected] Non-confidential content. January 8, 2020
14
default credentials. If possible, do not use hardcoded credentials. Monitor for any hardcoded methods
that cannot be removed or disabled. Restrict access to devices to only necessary personnel. Implement
the principle of least privilege across all applications, services, and devices to ensure individuals are
only able to access the resources needed to perform their duties. This includes ensuring applicationlayer services including file shares and cloud storage services are properly segmented. Following the
Purdue Model, network connections should be terminated before continuing to different levels.


ACCESS RESTRICTIONS Restrict administrative access within a domain, limit the number of domain
administrators, and separate networking, server, workstation, and database administrators into
separate organizational units (OUs). Identity is key in defense.


SEGMENTATION Where possible, segment and isolate networks to limit lateral movement. This can be
done most easily with a firewall or access control list (ACL) for companies to virtually segment networks
and reduce attack surface while limiting adversary mobility. While CIP-005 provides requirements on
creating an Electronic Security Perimeter for in-scope BES Cyber Systems, a similar approach may be
useful for smaller utilities and other facilities. Additional guidance from NERC on leveraging firewalls
has been released that can be applied regardless of NERC CIP requirements. [43]


VISIBILITY A comprehensive approach for visibility into ICS/OT environments should be taken to ensure
that there is no gap in monitoring. Asset owners and operators and security personnel should work
together to gather network and host-based logs starting from the most critical infrastructure, also
known as “crown jewels.” The ability to identify and correlate suspicious network, host, and process
events can greatly assist in either identifying intrusions as they occur, or facilitate root-cause analysis
after a disruptive event. Ensure network monitoring of the operations network through ICS-focused
technologies.


ACCESSIBILITY Identify and categorize ingress and egress routes into control system networks. This
includes engineer and administrator remote access portals, but also covers items such as business
intelligence and licensing server links that need to access IT resources or the wider internet. Limit these
types of connections, via firewall rules or other methods, to ensure a minimized attack surface. This
approach compliments the requirements of CIP-005, and Dragos recommends considering where to
place similar controls outside of NERC CIP compliance programs.


PUBLIC DATA Assess asset owner hosted, publicly posted information and data that could allow
sensitive information to be utilized by an adversary. Work with vendors, contractors, and other to
minimize or prevent identification of specific sites, capabilities, or equipment in marketing and related
materials. Some data, like regulatory filings, may require working with legal counsel to manage—or at
least monitor.


CONFIGURATION Identify and store “known good” configuration information for ICS devices in nonnetwork accessible locations to provide baselines for comparison as well as restore points in the event
of disruption. Update these items frequently to ensure such storage mirrors production environments.
This action not only assists recovery in the event of IT malware propagating into ICS networks, but also


43 See NERC Control Systems Security Working Group guideline titled “Control System Electronic Connectivity.” This guideline provides a number of
examples with variants on the four-legged firewall model. This guideline is not intended to be specific to CIP compliance; rather it is focused on good
security practices.
©2019 Dragos, Inc. All rights reserved. [Protected] Non-confidential content. January 8, 2020
15
facilitates analysis by providing baselines to compare potentially manipulated configurations against.
CIP-010 provides additional context for this approach for in-scope BES Cyber Systems.


THREAT INTELLIGENCE Use and operationalize ICS-specific threat intelligence. Threat intelligence can
enable identification of known threat behaviors. Electric power entities should understand the behaviors
and capabilities of activity groups targeting other industrial verticals, such as oil and gas, as these
adversaries actively shift and expand targeting to include additional energy sectors. The Dragos
Platform incorporates intelligence-driven threat behavior analytics, [44] automating identification of
known attacker behaviors. Dragos WorldView Threat Intelligence provides up-to-date intelligence
feeds, reports, analysis, and defensive recommendations for new and ongoing threats to oil and gas.
The NERC CIP Reliability Standards do not address threat management, which is a mature—but
necessary—practice for any security program.


DEFENSE-IN-DEPTH Design and implement defense-in-depth surrounding ICS networks where security
controls and enhanced visibility are applied to hosts capable of handling such tasks. Examples include
requiring remote access to flow through a jump-host featuring enhanced Windows and network logging
to ensure adequate monitoring of remote access to the control system network. OT cybersecurity
requires a strategy specific to the vertical and cannot be a simple extension of the enterprise
implementation.


NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE ALLANITE and DYMALLOY regularly target routers and switches during
compromises, changing configurations to allow for persistent access or delivery of additional malware.
Implement router, switch, and firewall configuration baselines and a configuration management
program to ensure adversaries do not tamper with configurations and exploit security gaps.

