Notable Activity
what, at the time, was a novel technique utilizing PowerShell to download
MadHatter malware on victim machines. Although the TTPs were typical,
the specific targeting at each institution provided insight into how these
adversaries may be tasked in their operations.
Analysis of each incident revealed that, up until mid-June 2014, the
adversary was focused on experts on Asian and Chinese policy at each
affected institution. This targeting is consistent with the objectives likely
imposed on Chinese intelligence collection during this time in support of
global intelligence collection surrounding the ongoing HD-981 incident.
During mid-June, DEEP PANDA clearly and immediately shifted focus from
Asia-related issues to Middle East-related issues. This shift coincided with a
significant uptick in attacks from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS),
particularly an attack on the Baiji oil refinery in Iraq.
At one institution, the actor focused on a target with expertise in China’s
natural resource consumption and energy sourcing requirements. Additional
targets at this institution included an executive assistant and network
engineers and administrators. The targeting of an executive assistant would
likely provide access to information on high-level strategy and operational
information, and targeting of network administrators would provide
information useful in lateral movement and establishing persistence.
At the second institution, targeted individuals had extensive careers in the
U.S. government and intelligence community, had written on U.S. Middle East
policy, and had given congressional testimony on ISIS issues. The targets
in this instance could provide information on potential U.S. strategy and
possibly even communications between the institution and U.S.
government entities.
The rapid pivot between individuals at these institutions focused on Asia
issues to individuals focused on Middle East issues shows how quickly these
adversaries are able to react to new tasking. The targeting in these cases
appear to be in line with interests of government organizations who would
desire information on strategic options that the U.S. might be considering
with respect to ISIS. Information from these kinds of institutions would also
be useful to companies doing business in the Middle East.
46