PLA Information Warfare Planning
An effective offensive IW capability requires the ability to assess accurately the likely
impact on the adversary of a CNA strike on a given node or asset. These
assessments, in turn, depend upon detailed intelligence on the adversary’s network,
the C2 relationships, and the various dependencies attached to specific nodes on the
network.

The Science of Military Strategy directs planners to “grasp the operational
center of gravity and choose the targets and sequence for strike…arrange the
enemy’s comprehensive weaknesses on the selective basis for a list of the
operational targets, according to the degree of their influences upon the whole
operational system and procedure.” [41]

Mission planners must also understand the explicit and implicit network
dependencies associated with a given node to avoid undesired collateral
damage or the defensive redundancies that may exist to enable the targeted
unit or organization to reroute its traffic and “fight through” the attack,
effectively nullifying the Chinese strike.
CNA planning also requires a nuanced understanding of the cultural or military
sensitivities surrounding how a given attack will be perceived by an adversary.
Failure to understand an enemy’s potential “red lines” can lead to unintentional
escalation of the conflict, forcing the PLA to alter its campaign objectives or
fight a completely new campaign for which it may be unprepared.
PLA IW planners and leaders have noted that CNO is blurring the separation that
military planners maintained between the hierarchy of “strategy,” “campaign,” and
“combat” (or “tactics” in Western usage) so that CNO or EW weapons employed by
tactical-sized units can strike strategic targets deep in the adversary’s own territory
beyond the range of most conventional weapons, possibly changing the course of the
conflict. [42] This changing perspective on IW and especially CNO tools may impact the
senior leadership perspective on targeting, particularly if the use of these tools is
40 Annual Report to Congress: Military Power of the People’s Republic of China 2006, US
Department of Defense, p. 34.
41 Science of Military Strategy, p. 464
42
OSC, CPP20081229563002,“Relations Between Strategy, Campaigns And Battles , China Military
Science, 29 December 2008.
21
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
perceived to have plausible deniability for Beijing or complicates an adversary’s
ability to counterattack.
22
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation