2017
German Foreign
Austrian Foreign
Ministry
French Armed Forces
Figure 1 // Timeline of important attacks attributed to Turla
As opposed to some other APT (Advanced Persistent Threat) groups, Turla is far from being opportunistic
in the selection of its targets. The group is interested in collecting information from strategic organizations.
In addition, to our knowledge, Turla has never conducted cybersabotage operations, such as those made
by GreyEnergy [8] or TeleBots [9] .
With several years of experience tracking this espionage group, we have identified the most at-risk types
of organizations:


Ministries of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic representations (embassies, consulates, etc.)


Military organizations


Regional political organizations


Defense contractors


Other APT groups might also be targets of interest for Turla. In June 2019, Symantec reported [10]
that Turla had hijacked OilRig infrastructure and used it to drop its own malware onto existing OilRig
victims’ networks.
According to our telemetry and public information, Turla seems to target organizations in most parts
of the world. Moreover, over the past few years, we have noticed that geographical areas of conflict,
such as Eastern Europe and the Middle East, are under heavy attack from this APT group. However, even
with this recent focus, it has not abandoned its traditional targets in Western Europe and Central Asia.
6 From Agent.BTZ to ComRAT v4 A ten-year journey
2.3 Tools and tactics
The usual modus operandi of Turla’s operators is to use basic first-stage malware for initial reconnaissance.
In some cases they even use generic tools such as Metasploit [11] [12] . If they deem a victim interesting
enough, they switch to more advanced malware such as Carbon [13] or Gazer [14] .
The initial compromise is generally tailored towards specific types of victims. They mainly rely on spearphishing
emails [15], watering hole attacks [16] [17] or Man-in-the-Middle attacks [18] .
After this initial compromise step, they move laterally on the network and collect credentials.
To avoid suspicious communications to the internet, they developed tools such as DarkNeuron [19]
and RPC Backdoor [1], to forward commands and exfiltrate data from the local network. They also
regularly create user accounts that they use later if they lose access to a compromised machine. This all
means that once compromised, it is very hard to eject the attacker from the network without rebuilding
most of it.
Finally, collected data are exfiltrated through various channels such as HTTP, email or cloud storage.
Turla’s operators usually rely on compromised web servers for the first C&C level. They are also known
for using Cloudflare and SATCOM IP addresses to hide the real destination of this traffic [20] .
Turla’s operators have at their disposal a wide arsenal of malware tools for all major desktop platforms:
Windows, macOS and Linux. Some of these tools stand out for their complexity, such as the Snake rootkit,
which relies on a vulnerable VirtualBox driver to bypass Windows Driver Signature Enforcement [21] . Some
others stand out for their originality, such as the Outlook backdoor we analyzed in 2018 [22] or LightNeuron,
a backdoor targeting Microsoft Exchange [23] .
During our several years of tracking Turla’s activities, we have also noticed that its operators react quickly
to both detection and publication. Apparently, they do not hesitate to remove their tools and clean some
artefacts such as malware logs, and potentially lose control of a machine, if they feel they will be detected
soon. They probably do not want their more-advanced malware to be exposed publicly.