Ransomware booming
The third quarter brought a record rise in the number of ransomware attacks, which
accounted for over half of all malware attacks.
Instead of mass attacks, ransomware operators by and large are striking very selec
tively as they target major companies able to provide a large payday, or else organ
51%
Q3
izations ill-able to afford any disruptions. In Q3, ransomware was particularly active
Figure 11. Ransomware attacks
(percentage of attacks involving against manufacturing and industry, as well as healthcare.
malware)
4% 18% 4% 16% 16%
Hospitality and entertainment
Finance
Other
Multiple industries
9% 10% 10% 13%
Manufacturing and industry
Healthcare
Science and education
IT
Government
© Positive Technologies
Figure 12. Ransomware attacks by industry
Top five most used ransomware families in Q3 2020


Netwalker


REvil


Maze


DoppelPaymer


RansomEXX


10
In mid-July, the operators of REvil infected the internal network of Telecom
Argentina, one of the South American country's largest Internet providers. The
hackers infected more than 18,000 workstations. They requested a ransom of $7.5
million. Another high-profile incident in Argentina occurred in late August, this
time involving the country's immigration service. A Netwalker ransomware attack
brought the country's border crossings to a halt. For restoration of access, the
attackers requested $4 million.
New DarkSide ransomware was publicly noted for the first time in August as well. The
operators of DarkSide are requesting ransoms from $200,000 to $2 million. They se
lect their victims with great care, based on whether they believe whether a particular
company will be able to pay. They have pledged to not attack healthcare, education,
governments, and non-profits. According to Advanced Intelligence, the malware
avoids ending certain processes during attacks. Since TeamViewer is one of the pro
cesses in question, it may be that the attackers are using TeamViewer for remotely
connecting to victim computers. One of the first victims was Brookfield Residential in
North America, from which the DarkSide operators stole more than 200 GB of data
including corporate secrets, financial information, and employee records.
The operators of WastedLocker are no less thorough when selecting their victims.
In late July, they struck Garmin, the manufacturer of GPS navigation equipment and
smart watches. Garmin clients lost access to connected services and applications
for several days. The attackers' initial ransom demand was for $10 million. Four days
after the attack, Garmin began to bring its services back online. It is suspected that
the company reached a deal with the hackers and paid a ransom, although the pre
cise amount, if any, remains unknown.
i
Figure 13. Ransom demand addressed to Garmin
In late July, RansomEXX ransomware brought down the Konica Minolta site, making
it inaccessible for around a week. During the same time period, Maze was striking
Canon: the group claimed to have stolen 10 TB of the company's data.
Chinese offices of French shipping giant CMA CGM also fell victim. At the end of the
third quarter, they were attacked by the operators of Ragnar Locker ransomware.
The company's container reservation system, sites, and applications were inaccessi
ble for around 24 hours.
i
11
Data processing provider Equinix was compromised by Netwalker ransomware in
early September. The stolen data included financial information, data center au
dits and reports, salaries, and accounting documents. The ransom demanded for
decryption and non-disclosure of the stolen data was $4.5 million. In their ransom
note, the hackers also threatened to double the amount if it was not paid quickly.
Equinix has not publicized how the attackers breached its network, but researchers
at Advanced Intelligence discovered sale postings on the darknet for credentials for
74 of the company's servers.
The market for criminal cyberservices has been a topic in our previous reports. A
division of labor can be seen in the cybercrime world. Less-skilled hackers find ways
in to corporate networks. They sell this access on to more experienced hackers who
can monetize it most effectively. The case of Equinix is far from the only one, even
among major companies. For example, a posting offering to sell access to the cor
porate network of a leading global shipbuilding company was put on the darkweb in
September. The price was 10 bitcoins, which at current valuations exceeds $100,000.
i
Figure 14. For sale: access to a global shipbuilding giant
As noted already, some attackers steal data before encrypting the victim's copy. If
no ransom is forthcoming, they publish this high-value content on their own sites.
Such sites appeared in the last quarter among SunCrypt, DarkSide, and Conti.
Curiously, some attackers are trying to piggyback on the reputation of more well
known groups. The operators of SunCrypt ransomware announced at the end of
August that they had joined the Maze cartel. But Maze was unaware of this, judging
by the group's denial. Maze stated that SunCrypt was pursuing a PR strategy of
claiming membership in the cartel as a way to increase the pressure on victims.