The "Red October" Campaign - An Advanced Cyber Espionage Network Targeting Diplomatic and Government Agencies
Here's a link to the full paper (part 1) about our Red October research. During the next
days, we'll be publishing Part 2, which contains a detailed technical analysis of all the
known modules. Please stay tuned.
During the past five years, a high-level cyber-espionage campaign has successfully infiltrated computer
networks at diplomatic, governmental and scientific research organizations, gathering data and
intelligence from mobile devices, computer systems and network equipment.
Kaspersky Lab's researchers have spent several months analyzing this malware, which targets specific
organizations mostly in Eastern Europe, former USSR members and countries in Central Asia, but also in
Western Europe and North America.
The campaign, identified as "Rocra", short for "Red October", is currently still active with data being sent
to multiple command-and-control servers, through a configuration which rivals in complexity the
infrastructure of the Flame malware. Registration data used for the purchase of C&C domain names and
PE timestamps from collected executables suggest that these attacks date as far back as May 2007.
Some key findings from our investigation:
The attackers have been active for at least five years, focusing on diplomatic and governmental
agencies of various countries across the world. Information harvested from infected networks is
reused in later attacks. For example, stolen credentials were compiled in a list and used when the
attackers needed to guess passwords and network credentials in other locations. To control the
network of infected machines, the attackers created more than 60 domain names and several server
hosting locations in different countries (mainly Germany and Russia). The C&C infrastructure is
actually a chain of servers working as proxies and hiding the location of the true -mothership
command and control server.
The attackers created a multi-functional framework which is capable of applying quick extension of
the features that gather intelligence. The system is resistant to C&C server takeover and allows the
attacker to recover access to infected machines using alternative communication channels.
Beside traditional attack targets (workstations), the system is capable of stealing data from mobile
devices, such as smartphones (iPhone, Nokia, Windows Mobile); dumping enterprise network
equipment configuration (Cisco); hijacking files from removable disk drives (including already
deleted files via a custom file recovery procedure); stealing e-mail databases from local Outlook
storage or remote POP/IMAP server; and siphoning files from local network FTP servers.
We have observed the use of at least three different exploits for previously known vulnerabilities:
CVE-2009-3129 (MS Excel), CVE-2010-3333 (MS Word) and CVE-2012-0158 (MS
Word) . The earliest known attacks used the exploit for MS Excel and took place in 2010 and 2011,
while attacks targeting the MS Word vulnerabilities appeared in the summer of 2012.
The exploits from the documents used in spear phishing were created by other attackers and
employed during different cyber attacks against Tibetan activists as well as military and energy
sector targets in Asia. The only thing that was changed is the executable which was embedded in the
document; the attackers replaced it with their own code.
Sample fake image used in one of the Rocra spear phishing attacks.
During lateral movement in a victim's network, the attackers deploy a module to actively scan the
local area network, find hosts vulnerable for MS08-067 (the vulnerability exploited by Conficker) or
accessible with admin credentials from its own password database. Another module used collected
information to infect remote hosts in the same network.
Based on registration data of the C&C servers and numerous artifacts left in executables of the
malware, we strongly believe that the attackers have Russian-speaking origins. Current attackers
and executables developed by them have been unknown until recently, they have never related to
any other targeted cyber attacks. Notably, one of the commands in the Trojan dropper switches the
codepage of an infected machine to 1251 before installation. This is required to address files and
directories that contain Cyrillic characters in their names.