The Chinese Hacker Community
China’s hackers, active in thousands of Web-based groups and individually,
represent a mature community of practitioners that has developed a rich knowledge
base similar to their counterparts in countries around the world. A review of these
Web communities reveals many layers of interest groups: malware tool developers,
legitimate security researchers, and novices and experts alike in search of training.
The tools or techniques that these groups post are often used by true black hat
practitioners.
China’s hacker community gained early notoriety for member willingness to engage in
large-scale politically motivated denial of service attacks, data destruction, and Web
defacements of foreign networks, known as hacktivism.  Between 1999 and 2004,
the Chinese hacker community was defined by its regular use of large scale,
politically motivated attacks against foreign networks or Websites. Chinese hackers
traded Web defacements and distributed denial of service attacks with their
counterparts in the United States, Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia, and South Korea and
operated with relative immunity from Chinese law until strongly worded
condemnations issued from Beijing eventually reigned in the attacks. Motivated by
nationalist fervor, often resulting from a perceived insult to China by a foreign country,
the leaders of hacker groups unified their members, identified targets, and often
disseminated attack tools via their Websites to ensure mass participation.
In May 1998, anti-Chinese riots in Indonesia sparked a series of Chinese
hacker attacks on multiple Indonesian Websites.
Following the accidental bombing of the PRC embassy in Serbia in May 1999,
Chinese hackers mounted their first large scale attack on the White House led
by the group Javaphile according to one of its founding members, who uses
the “screen name” CoolSwallow . [71]
71 Scott Henderson, The Dark Visitor, January 2007, p. 36.
37
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
The 1999 comments by then Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui that Taiwan
deserved to be treated as an equal state by the PRC catalyzed massive PRC
hacker attacks on the Taiwan National Assembly, Presidential Executive Office
and many additional government Websites, according to Western press
reports of the exchange. [72]
In May 2001, the Honker Union of China claimed that it had attacked over
1,000 US Websites—approximately the same number that US hackers
claimed they attacked in the PRC—following the collision between a US EP-3
surveillance aircraft and a Chinese fighter. [73]
PRC government reaction to Chinese hacker group participation in the various
“hacker wars” from 1999 to 2002 was initially encouraging, lauding the efforts of the
various Chinese groups involved. By mid 2002 and after, however, this sentiment
changed and official Party media sources published editorials discouraging further
mass actions online, suggesting that hacking activities in any country were illegal and
would not be tolerated. [74] The groups interpreted the editorial as state opposition to
future planned attacks and gradually stood down.
In 2001, following a large scale denial of service attack against the White
House, the People’s Daily, the official newspaper of the Communist Party,
issued an editorial in its online edition that decried the Chinese attacks as
“Web terrorism,” and said that the attacks by the Honker Union of China on US
Websites were “unforgivable acts violating the law," effectively withdrawing
Beijing’s tacit and explicit support from the hacker groups’ campaigns. [75]
As government tolerance for large scale attacks against foreign networks
waned, many of the most prominent Chinese hacker organizations active in
the US-China and cross-Strait exchanges at the beginning of the decade
appear to have evolved into formal information security research companies
offering professional information security services. Many others simply
disbanded, or reorganized. Some of these groups or individuals have
developed relationships with companies close to PRC security organizations
or to the government itself.
72 Damon Bristow, “Cyber-warfare rages across Taiwan Strait,” Jane's Intelligence Review,
Vol. 12, Issue 2, February 1, 2000.
73 OSC , CPP20010510000031, “ Chinese Hackers Call for Ceasefire in Sino-US Hacker War,”
AFP, 10 May 2001.
74 OSC, CPP20010508000067, “SCMP Report on PRC Officials Condemning Hacker Attacks,”
by Vivien Pik-kwan Chan, South China Morning Post, 8 May 2001.
75 OSC, CPP20010508000067, Ibid.
38
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
The government’s position on these activities created a dynamic of self-censorship, [76]
and effectively deterred a general resurgence of similar large scale hacker wars.
Some groups, rallying around politically “safe” topics such as anti-Tibetan
independence, however, still attempt politically driven attacks on foreign Websites.
In December 2008, Chinese hackers associated with the Web group
hack4.com staged politically motivated Web defacements on French
Embassies in the US, United Kingdom, China, and Canada after French
President Sarkozy’s December 2008 visit with the Dalai Lama.
Chinese hackers attempted unsuccessfully to stage a large scale distributed
denial of service (DDoS) attack against CNN’s Website in April 2008, with
purpose-built malware that ordinary Internet users could employ in a crude but
potentially effective attack. The planning for the attack was exposed by a USbased information warfare expert on his blog and the volume of traffic against
CNN generated from this effort barely registered among Internet security
analysts as a denial of service attack. [77]
A February 2009 National People’s Congress expansion of China’s anti-hacking law,
coupled with a series of high profile arrests and harsh sentences for hacking crimes,
will possibly subject China’s online hacker communities to greater scrutiny and
possibly discourage some of the overt exchange of tools and hacking advice in open
online forums.
Previously China’s anti-hacking law only prohibited intrusions into PRC
government computer systems, technically leaving China’s hackers extremely
wide latitude for cybercriminal activities. The amendment also added a section
criminalizing the creation and dissemination of malicious software. [78]
Security authorities have already used the law for several high profile arrests
and convictions of both amateur and well-established hackers.
76 Mulvenon, “PLA Computer Network Operations,” p. 279.
77 See Scott Henderson’s Dark Visitor blog at http://www.thedarkvisitor.com/2008/04/new-kinda-lazychinese-hacker-attack-on-cnn-scheduled-for-tomorrow/; and security researcher Jose Nazario’s blog
at Arbor Networks, at http://asert.arbornetworks.com/2008/04/cnn-attacks-inside-two-dedicated-ddostools/; Mr. Henderson first detected the discussion threads on the attack planning and notified CNN.
Both he and Mr. Nazario maintained an ongoing watch on the developments via their respective blog
sites, publicizing the plans while attempting to update CNN system administrators.
78 “China Toughens Cybercrime Rules,” Computerworld, May 19, 2009, available at:
www.computerworld.com/china_toughens_cybercrime_rules. | “Chinese Lawmakers Consider
Tough Penalties on Hackers,” Xinhua, December 22, 2008, available at:
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2008-12/22/content_10544179.htm. | OSC
CPP20090404718012, “Law Revision Tars "Patriotic" Hackers With Same Brush as Thieves
And Troublemakers,” South China Morning Post Online, 4 April 2009.
39
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation