1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
It seems the past few years have shown an increase in supply-chain attacks to distribute malware.
Is this a reality, or because the industry is getting better at detecting and documenting them? Regardless
of the answer, one of the groups that has been shown to be quite effective at conducting supply-chain
attacks is the Winnti Group. Not only they have compromised multiple high-profile targets, but in each case,
they were able to stay under the radar for many months before they were found and disrupted.
This report describes in detail some of the new malware used by this group in the organizations they target.
Another one of their backdoors, ShadowPad, was also updated recently. This report will also expose the new
techniques they use to hide their payloads.
By analyzing their tools and techniques, ESET researchers were able to infer some relationships between
each reported supply-chain incident.
Key Findings
   - One of the goals of the group, or its subgroups, is cryptocurrency mining. The Winnti Group has deployed

cryptocurrency mining software using the backdoor they added in games and software in 2018 .
   - There are strong links in the tools and the techniques used in multiple major supply-chain attacks in past

years. These links indicate that the following incidents were likely performed by the same group:
CCleaner, NetSarang, Asus and games and software in 2018 .
   - This report documents a previously unanalyzed backdoor used by the Winnti Group. Called _PortReuse_

by its authors, this Windows backdoor is a passive network implant that injects itself into a process that is
already listening on a network port and waits for an incoming magic packet to trigger the malicious code.
   - With the help of _[Censys](https://censys.io/)_, ESET researchers identified and notified a victim of _PortReuse_ : a major Asian

mobile hardware and software vendor.
   - The ShadowPad malware is still being updated by its author and was updated and used multiple times

in 2019. It has the same modular approach and includes additional obfuscation techniques.