1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
It is exceptionally rare for a well-documented threat actor, previously implicated in very high-profile attacks,
to stay completely under the radar for several years. Yet, in the last three years that is what APT group
the Dukes (aka APT29 and Cozy Bear) has done. Despite being well known as one of the groups to hack the
Democratic National Committee in the run-up to the 2016 US election, the Dukes has received little subsequent attention. The last documented campaign attributed to them is a phishing campaign against
the Norwegian government that dates back to January 2017.
In this white paper, we describe how we uncovered that the Dukes had been running successful espionage
campaigns while avoiding public scrutiny, thanks to stealthy communication techniques and retooling.
We call these newly uncovered Dukes campaigns, collectively, Operation Ghost, and describe how the group
has been busy compromising government targets, including three European Ministries of Foreign Affairs and
the Washington DC embassy of a European Union country, all without drawing attention to their activities.
Key points in this white paper:
The Dukes never stopped their espionage activities.
   - _Operation Ghost_ likely started in 2013.


   - The last known activity linked to _Operation Ghost_ occurred in June 2019.

   - ESET researchers identified at least three victims: all European Ministries of Foreign Affairs including

the Washington DC embassy of a European Union country.
   - The Dukes have used four new malware families in this campaign: PolyglotDuke, RegDuke, FatDuke

and LiteDuke.
   - _Operation Ghost_ uses a previously documented Dukes backdoor: MiniDuke.


   - The Dukes have leveraged online services such as Twitter, Imgur and Reddit to act as primary Command

and Control (C&C) channels for their first-stage malware.
   - The Dukes have used very stealthy techniques such as steganography to hide communications between

compromised machines and their C&C servers.
For any inquiries related to this white paper, contact us at threatintel@eset.com .