~~Infrastructure~~
Infrastructure represents a critical threat vector.
IT and applications infrastructure, whether on
premises, in the cloud, or multi-cloud, is defined as
all the hardware (physical, virtual, containerized),
software (open source, first- and third-party,
platform as a service (PaaS), SaaS, functions, and
APIs), micro-services, networking infrastructure,
and facilities that are required to develop, test,
deliver, monitor, control, or support IT services
and applications. It is an area where Microsoft
has invested tremendous resources to develop a
comprehensive set of capabilities to secure future
cloud and on-premises infrastructure.
Collaboration with MITRE on
an ATT&CK-style matrix
The flexibility and scalability of containers encourage
many developers to move their workloads to
Kubernetes, an open-source system for automating
deployment, scaling, and managing containerized
applications. While Kubernetes has many
advantages, it also brings new security challenges
that should be considered. Therefore, it is crucial
to understand the various security risks that exist
in containerized environments, and specifically in
Kubernetes.
The MITRE ATT&CK framework is a knowledge base
of known tactics and techniques that are involved
in cyberattacks. Started with coverage for Windows
and Linux, the matrices of MITRE ATT&CK cover
the various stages that are involved in cyberattacks
(tactics) and elaborate the known methods in each
one of them (techniques). Those matrices help
organizations understand the attack surface in their
environments and make sure they have adequate
detections and mitigations to the various risks.
When the Azure Security Center team began
mapping the security landscape of Kubernetes, they
noticed that although the attack techniques are
different than those targeting Linux or Windows, the
tactics are similar. For example, a translation from
OS to container clusters would be “initial access to
the computer,” which becomes “initial access to the
cluster.” So, the team created the first Kubernetes
attack matrix: an ATT&CK-like matrix comprising
the major techniques that are relevant to container
orchestration security.
Learn more:
The evolution of a matrix: How ATT&CK for
Containers was built Microsoft Security Blog |
(7/21/2021)
Threat matrix for Kubernetes (microsoft.com)
(5/10/2021)
Secure containerized environments with updated
threat matrix for Kubernetes Microsoft Security Blog |
(3/23/2021)
Crypto-Mining Attacks Targeting Kubernetes Clusters
via Kubeflow Instances (6/9/2021)
Update: Help Shape ATT&CK for Containers
(2/18/2021)
Threat matrix for cloud storage
As the move to the cloud enables a more secure
hybrid workforce, organizations are also increasing
their dependency on cloud storage services. They
require effective threat protection, mitigation
strategies, and tools in place to manage access to
their cloud storage. For example, Azure Defender
treats data-centric services, such as cloud storage
accounts and big data analytics platforms, as part
of the security perimeter and provides prioritization
and mitigation of threats for data storage. As
Microsoft cloud security researchers examined
the attack surface of storage services, they noted
potential risks to be aware of when deploying,
configuring, or monitoring a storage workload.
We’ve produced a threat matrix for storage [102] to
help organizations identify gaps in their defenses.
We expect the matrix to dynamically evolve as more
threats are discovered and exploited, and techniques
can also be deprecated as cloud infrastructures
constantly progress toward securing their services.
Learn more:
Safeguard your multicloud resources Microsoft Cloud |
Security
Threat matrix for storage services - Microsoft Security
(4/8/2021)
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
Infrastructure represents a critical threat vector.
Note 102 Threat matrix for storage services Microsoft Security Blog |
104
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction A Zero Trust approach for securing hybrid work Identities Devices/Endpoints Applications Network Infrastructure Data People
their privacy data footprint and surface of attack to
achieve sustainable compliance. These security and
compliance benefits can also be achieved by using
similar approaches with other sensitive or regulated
datasets.
Reducing the risk associated with data is not only
about pruning old data and securing it where it
resides now. It is also about reevaluating how the
organization conducts business with sensitive data
going forward to ensure proper storage, access,
flow, and lifecycle so that this sensitive data does
not persist or propagate uncontrollably.
Over time, this means reengineering high-risk
business processes and adhering to data governance
Cumulative impact of unified data governance and security on sensitive data risk