Stuxnet
The Stuxnet incident and its relatives Duqu, Flamer and Gauss are some of the most talked-about cases of
targeted attacks. As far as we know today, the Stuxnet operation began in November 2005 with the registration
of the command and control (C&C) servers used in the attacks. The first recorded appearance of what we now
call Stuxnet version 0.5 was in November 2007. Since then, a handful of different versions have been found and
analyzed. Stuxnet 1.x is based on what is now known as the “tilded” platform; whereas Stuxnet 0.5 is based
on the Flamer framework. The code segments and programming style differ, which indicates that two different
programming teams were most likely responsible for the different branches of Stuxnet. Thorough investigation
into the mechanism and functions of this threat started in July 2010. Stuxnet is the first known autonomous
threat to target and sabotage industrial control systems to such an extent.
Stuxnet is a sophisticated piece of malware, which uses seven vulnerabilities to spread and infect its targets.
The most notable vulnerability is the Microsoft Windows Shortcut ‘LNK/PIF’ Files Automatic File Execution
Vulnerability (CVE-2010-2568), which allows it to auto-execute on USB drives. Spreading through infected
portable media drives allowed it to also infect networks isolated by air gaps that are unreachable from the
Internet. This was most likely the first infection vector used by Stuxnet. In addition, it is able to infect Step7
project files, which are used to control Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs). This allowed the worm to infect
computers whenever the engineer exchanged the project files. Besides this, it also spread through network
shares, a printer spooler vulnerability, an old Windows RPC (remote procedure calls) vulnerability and a known
password in the WinCC database. In the end, Stuxnet propagated further than its authors probably intended. We
have monitored more than 40,000 infected IP addresses in 155 countries. Many of those systems are most likely
just collateral damage and were not intended to be infected by the attackers. For example multiple computers at
Chevron were infected by Stuxnet, without any damage being done.
Part of the malware code was signed with stolen digital certificates making it harder to detect by security tools.
To hide its activity even further, Stuxnet executed slightly different infection routines depending on the security
software installed on the target. On the USB drive itself, the malware would hide its own files and even delete
itself from it after three successful propagations. Tricks like these, to make the detection of the malware more
difficult, are now frequently used in modern targeted attacks.
Stuxnet’s payload focused on PLCs, which are used to control different industrial components. The target of the
Stuxnet operation is believed to be a uranium enrichment facility in Iran. The sabotage payload disrupted and
partially destroyed the cascaded high frequency gas centrifuges. The early version of Stuxnet targeted the S7417 PLCs and modified its valve settings. Closing the valves at certain points in time would lead to an increase
of pressure that could damage the equipment. The later version of the threat focused on the S7-315 PLCs,
manipulating the spinning frequency of the rotating motors. By speeding the centrifuges up and slowing them
down repeatedly, the output quality could be spoiled and the centrifuges themselves could be damaged. The
payload would only become active if the fingerprint in the found PLC setup matched a given configuration setup.
This minimized the collateral damage at other facilities and showed that the attackers had in-depth knowledge
of the targeted uranium enrichment facilities. To avoid detection by personnel monitoring the human machine
interface (HMI) of the plant, the threat recorded measurement readings during normal operation and played
those back in a loop.