The Chinese Communist Party’s Strategy for Targeted Propaganda
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
This report assesses concepts related to the Chinese Communist Party’s
international propaganda and information influence strategy. Topics covered include
the party’s intent to segment audiences for targeted propaganda, theories about
the selection of target countries, audience data collection, and the dissemination
of tailored propaganda. Sources include authoritative Chinese materials, research
by Chinese scholars, party-state media, procurement and corporate documents,
among others. See Appendix B for more details on the methodology. The author,
Devin Thorne, would like to thank Nathan Beauchamp-Mustafaga for his generous
support. Additional information about the author can be found at the end of the
report.
Executive Summary
To maximize its influence over international audiences, the
Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is striving to tailor its propaganda
to the specific interests of target populations. This approach,
which is defined by the concept of “precise communication”,
adapts the market segmentation tactics of advertisers to design
content and dissemination methods that appeal to the preferences
of a given group. China’s implementation of this strategy requires
an in-depth understanding of target audiences, which is being
attained — with the aid of international firms — through area
studies research, in-country surveys, and online behavioral data.
Precise communication has been heralded as a necessity and an
era-defining shift by party-state media researchers; it is almost
certainly driving an era of greater adaptability within the CCP’s
propaganda apparatus, including party-state media’s deepening
overseas localization, and very likely informing the CCP’s use of
internet personalities for propaganda. Obstacles such as data
privacy laws and international social media platform countermeasures are likely to inhibit the full realization of the CCP’s goal,
but the party’s propaganda apparatus is actively seeking to find 1
“key” — a targeted message — for 1 “lock” — a specific audience
that, from the party’s perspective, needs to be influenced. [1]
Key Judgments

The current era of the CCP’s external propaganda work is

marked by the increasing granularity with which content
can be tailored based on audience data and modern
communication technologies.

Chinese communication researchers propose segmenting

audiences based on individual, community, or country
level characteristics such as culture, economic
development, religious faith, customs, and personal
interests.

Achieving an in-depth understanding of target audiences

is a prerequisite for success, and data from in-country
surveys and online behavioral data collected with
the assistance of domestic public opinion-monitoring
companies and international research and social media
firms is almost certainly being used to fulfill this demand.

The CCP external propaganda apparatus is likely

to continue expanding global data collection, seek
to leverage advertising data, and evolve its tactics
according to the latest advertising strategies that strive
to circumvent hurdles such as those posed by data
privacy laws — jurisdictions with lax regulations likely
face greater risk.

Party-state media is almost certainly among the leading

implementers of precise communication, but a wide
range of actors are also very likely to be directly or
indirectly involved; some Chinese academics argue that
precise communication should entail selecting the right
communicator for maximum effect given the target and
content.

The precise communication concept is almost certainly

intended to influence all of the CCP’s propaganda output,
from news distribution through third parties, to TV show
production, to the online and social media activities of
party-state media and Chinese diplomats.

The content disseminated by party-state media and

other elements of the external propaganda apparatus is
likely to become increasingly diverse, first according to
country differences and then based on social strata and
other community-level characteristics.

New forms of media that adopt different approaches

are likely to continue proliferating, with recent examples
including online lifestyle influencers and newsletters.
1 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
20 Years of CCP External Propaganda Work
The Chinese Communist Party is striving to seize the “right to
speak” (话语权) and to “set the agenda” (议题设置) internationally.
Stated simply, this means creating an environment in which the
party shapes what is talked about and how a given issue is
perceived, with the goal of subsequently shaping the behavior
of global audiences in ways that are beneficial to the CCP’s
interests. [2] Core efforts in the creation of such an environment
are “news and public opinion work” (新闻舆论工作) and “public
opinion guidance” (舆论引导). These concepts refer to long-term,
continuous efforts to influence how people view social issues and
government policies to “dispel misgivings and clear up confusion,
[and] shape feelings” so that audiences have “correct” views as
defined by the CCP. [3]
To guide international public opinion on topics related to
China and the party’s policies, the CCP’s strategic concepts for
effectively conducting “external propaganda” (对外宣传) have
steadily matured and its information dissemination architecture
has expanded over the last 20 years. This movement began to
surge in 2004. The party-state created new leading bodies for
external propaganda work; resolved to craft a “great external
propaganda pattern” (大外宣格局) that involved a variety of actors
— central and local government entities, companies, academic
institutions, and non-governmental organizations — “singing the
same tune”; and expanded existing information dissemination
channels such as the government and CCP spokesperson
system. [4]
A core part of the external propaganda upgrade that began
in the early 2000s was the drive to expand party-state news
media globally. By early 2009, China’s Ministry of Finance had
reportedly budgeted 45 billion RMB (6.5 billion USD in January
2009) for the internationalization of China Central Television
(CCTV; 中国中央电视台), Xinhua News Agency (新华新闻社),
People’s Daily (人民日报), and other outlets. In June 2009,
central authorities issued the “2009-2020 Overall Plan for
Building My Country’s Key Media International Communication
Capabilities” (2009—2020年我国重点媒体国际传播力建设总体规
划), which outlined how central party-state outlets would build
a modern system for international communication, use emerging
media to create “breakthrough openings”, and improve editing,
distribution, and product marketing to “form an international
communication capability matching [China’s] level of economic
development and international status”.
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Chinese media’s internationalization, or “Going Out” (走
出去), involves newspapers, TV stations, radio stations, and
online media outlets establishing foreign offices, publishing and
broadcasting in all major languages, paying for content inserts
in foreign publications, distributing free news content, running
ad campaigns online and offline, and establishing a social
media presence on most foreign platforms. Since 2015, focus
has increasingly been placed on “localization” (本土化), including
by acquiring local media companies, hiring foreign staff, and
partnering with local media for co-production. [5]
2019 marked a turning point in China’s use of online
disinformation, with foreign-facing computational propaganda [6]
increasing rapidly. The challenges posed to China’s international
image by the party’s suppression of pro-democracy protests in
Hong Kong (2019-2020) and the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic
(2020-present) are almost certainly what drove greater numbers
of Chinese diplomats onto global social media platforms. Further,
under official instructions from the CCP’s leadership to “dare to
flash the sword (敢于亮剑) . . . [and] counterattack all kinds of
anti-China arguments”, [7] the messaging from China’s propaganda
apparatus has become more coercive in this period. However,
observers noted an emerging “forceful” and “provocative” tenor
in China’s diplomatic communications in earlier years and Taiwan
has been the target of suspected Chinese online information
influence operations since at least mid-2017. [8]
In the post-2019 period, inauthentic campaigns and online
personalities have become staples of CCP propaganda. YouTube,
Facebook, and other global social media platforms have removed
tens of thousands of accounts suspected of inauthentic
manipulation attributed to China in the past 3 years. Such accounts
amplify China’s diplomatic discourse and spread “political spam”
related to CCP narratives. Chinese party-state media personnel,
meanwhile, are becoming international influencers who use their
“personal brands” to disseminate cultural, lifestyle, and political
content. The voices of Chinese influencers are augmented by
foreign personalities who collaborate with and are amplified
by party-state media. The goal is to bring together multiple
communicators “like voices in a choir” to reflect “a fuller . . .
vision of China” in a tactic called “polyphonous communication”
(复调传播).
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 2
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Lastly, there has been a deepening government-directed
focus in recent years on what new technologies, especially
bulk data collection and artificial intelligence (AI), mean for
propaganda work in China and abroad. Broadly, AI is seen as a tool
for overcoming the challenges posed by the plurality of voices
and speed of communication on the internet, which is considered
the “most forward front of public opinion struggle”. Combined
with the right data, Chinese communication researchers believe
AI can assist the media and propaganda apparatus in achieving
early warning of undesirable narratives before they go viral
online, create content that more effectively resonates with
audiences, and distribute content according to user interests.
Precise Communication as Propaganda Strategy
“Precise communication” or “precision communication”
(精准传播) is the CCP’s strategic concept for maximizing the
international influence of its news media and other propaganda
work. [9] The term is derived from advertising tactics that use
consumer data to segment a target audience so that tailored
marketing can successfully influence the behavior of a specific
group. [10] It is considered a “foundational principle” (基本原则) [11]
of external propaganda. [12] A closely related concept is “One
Country, One Policy” (一国一策), which emphasizes that there are
differences between countries that should inform the design of
China’s media content. [13] Under precise communication and One
Country, One Policy, the CCP’s propaganda apparatus is actively
attempting to achieve a more in-depth understanding of target
audiences and is striving to customize its output accordingly. [14]
As part of this strategy, according to the CCP Central
Propaganda Department (中共中央宣传部)-authored text
Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era, [15] CCP cadres
are instructed to
formulate country communication plans . . . persist
in “content is king” . . . make news products more
attractive . . . strengthen country communication
research; go deep into the cultural context of foreign
audiences; understand their value concepts, ways of
thinking, and discourse style; [and] adopt targeted [ 针
对性 ], differentiated [ 差异性 ], and individualized [ 个性
化 ] communication tactics.
CCP General Secretary Xi Jinping (习近平) urged this
approach at a mid-2021 Politburo study session:
use precise communication methods that stick
closely to the audiences of different regions,
different countries, [and] different groups, promote
the globalized expression, regionalized expression,
[and] audience differentiationalized expression of
China’s story and . . . voice, [and] strengthen the
effectiveness and affinity of [China’s] international
communication.
Whereas the CCP’s propaganda apparatus was previously
focused on solving “the issue of how China’s voice can ‘go out’”,
the task now is to “solve how [China’s voice] can ‘go in’ [走进去]”
to the minds and hearts of people overseas. Thus, the adoption
of precise communication and One Country, One Policy mark an
“era-defining leap” (划时代飞跃) away from the “standardized”,
one-size-fits-all approach to communications of old, according
to the director of the International Communication Research
Office of Xinhua’s Journalism Research Institute (新华社新闻研究
所国际传播研究室). As demonstrated in the “Theories of Target
Selection” section of this report, precise communication entails
targeting groups of people below the country-level. Scholars
from Hunan University (湖南大学) asserted in a 2018 People’s
Daily article that it is now necessary to “implement precise
communication, [and] achieve [a situation in which] ‘1 key opens
1 lock’” — the locks being specific audiences and the keys being
China’s tailored content.
2015: A New Era Begins
The precise communication-focused era of CCP external
propaganda work very likely began in approximately 2015, based
on trends in academic publishing and early examples of audience
differentiation tactics. The strategy was almost certainly formally
adopted — and broadly recognized as policy in China — by no
later than 2017. It is almost certainly still influencing policies
related to technology and media and “information content
supply-side reform”, [16] which likely includes, for example, efforts
to elevate young journalism professionals in order to better
communicate with international youth audiences. While China’s
propaganda apparatus has sought to make its content more
accessible and appealing since at least 2009, the current era
of propaganda work is marked by the increasing granularity
with which content can be tailored based on audience data and
modern communication technologies.
3 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Figure 1: Emergence of topics in external propaganda strategy research (see Appendix B for methodology); the Control line is all articles that reference “precise communication”
in the title, abstract, or keywords, regardless of the topic (Source: Chinese academic database; compiled by Recorded Future)
Analysis of Chinese academic articles shows that precise
communication has been a research focus in China since the
mid-2000s, [17] but the vast majority of early (and many recent)
articles relate to commercial advertising. Dr. Anne-Marie Brady,
a professor at the University of Canterbury, has argued that
China’s propaganda apparatus began borrowing theories from
the advertising industry in the 1990s. [18] Precise communication
is almost certainly a theory absorbed from this field, with
some writings acknowledging this advertising link. [19] In both
external propaganda and advertising, the implementation of
precision-based strategies is intimately linked to the evolution
of communication technologies. Chinese communication
researchers believe that the current trends in communications,
AI, and data processing technologies offer “advantageous
conditions” for using the behavioral data generated online to
reach target audiences (see the “Preparing the Keys” section
for more on this topic).
Precise communication for external propaganda work was
being discussed as early as 2010, but it was not until 2015
that the number of articles annually published on this topic
reached double digits (see Figure 1). Assuming an average
1-year lag between writing and publishing, this data points to
2014 as the year when research into precise communication
for foreign propaganda started becoming mainstream. Figure 1
also indicates that the One Country, One Policy concept likely
began emerging in 2016 (a year prior to the 2017 increase in
publications). Research into the use of influential personalities
— including internet influencers — emerged in the 2007-2008
period and has boomed since 2017. See the “Influencers and
Newsletters” section for more discussion of this tactic in relation
to precise communication.
These findings roughly correspond to some of the first
authoritative indications of precise communication being
implemented as part of the CCP’s overseas propaganda
work, which occurred in the 2015-2016 period. For instance,
People’s Daily Overseas Edition (人民日报海外版) highlighted its
implementation of “audience differentiation” (分众化) in May 2015
and began experimenting with new forms of communication via
WeChat the year prior. Dr. Mareike Ohlberg, a senior fellow with
the German Marshall Fund, argues that “since 2015 CCP media
have been pursuing a strategy of media localization . . . offering
content in more languages and targeted at specific countries”.
Although it appears not to have been explicitly linked to precise
communication, China Global Television Network (CGTN; 中国
国际电视台; 中国环球电视网) was also established at the end of
2016, rebranding CCTV’s overseas presence in a bid to aid the
CCP’s “international public opinion discourse power”.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 4
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
At a February 2016 CCP journalism and public opinion
work symposium (新闻舆论工作座谈会), Xi Jinping personally
elaborated, likely for the first time publicly, the core tenets of
precise communication:
[We] must innovate [our] forms of external
discourse and expression, research the habits and
characteristics of different foreign audiences; adopt
concepts, categories, and formulations that integrate
the Chinese with the foreign; unite what we want to
say with what foreign audiences want to hear; unite
“emotion” ( 陈情 ) and “logic” ( 说理 ); [and] unite “I
speak” with “others speak”; to make the international
community and foreign audiences recognize ( 认同 )
[China’s] stories more.
Following Xi Jinping’s early 2016 instruction, the State
Council Information Office (SCIO; 国务院新闻办公室) published a
report discussing how China Daily (中国日报) was implementing
the new strategy. It highlights how China Daily implements
“reader audience differentiation” (读者分众化) and uses “audience
differentiated [social media] accounts that target different
regions [and] the demands of different readers with the goal
of realizing precise communication”. That China Daily was able
to point to its activities in prior years as evidence of this —
such as the creation of its United States (US) Edition in 2009 —
highlights how the CCP was striving to make its communications
more receptive to foreign audiences even prior to 2015-2016. But
as noted above, Chinese party-state media researchers believe
the previous period was more focused on expanding China’s
voice than the high-fidelity targeting that is now being pursued.
By no later than 2017, precise communication and One
Country, One Policy were new pillars of the CCP’s external
propaganda strategy and almost certainly widely understood
as such. Hu Bangsheng (胡邦胜), the deputy head of China
Radio International (CRI; 中国国际广播电台) in 2017, included
One Country, One Policy in an article titled “How My Country’s
External Propaganda Realizes Precise Communication”. [20] This
was published in the CCP Central Party School’s (中共中央党
校) journal, Chinese Cadres Tribune (中国党政干部论坛), with a
version amplified by People’s Daily Online (人民网). At the 5th
National External Communication Theory Seminar (第五届全国
对外传播理论研讨会) hosted by the Communication University
of China (CUC; 中国传媒大学) that year, then-deputy director of
the SCIO Guo Weimin (郭卫民) argued that the “new chapter” of
China’s external propaganda required audience differentiation,
improved precision, and “‘One Country, One Policy’, ‘One Country,
Many Policies’” (一国多策). Then-CUC dean Hu Zhengrong (胡正
荣) presented a paper at the same seminar on One Country, One
Policy and precise communication as “essentials” of effective
international communication. [21] Highlighting awareness of the
new strategy, scholars at Tsinghua University identified precise
communication as 1 of 4 main themes in a review of more than
1,200 academic articles from 2017 related to international
communication.
Emphasizing, in addition to Xi Jinping’s 2021 remarks quoted
above, that the precise communication almost certainly remains
relevant to CCP authorities post-2017, the National Social Science
Fund of China (NSSFC; 国家社会科学基金) funded research in
September 2020 on “Precise Communication Strategy for the
‘Belt and Road’ Initiative on Overseas Social Media Platforms”
(“一带一路”倡议在海外社交平台的精准传播策略). [22] The NSSFC is
administered by the National Planning Office of Philosophy and
Social Sciences (NPOPSS; 全国哲学社会科学工作办公室), which
is located within the CCP Central Propaganda Department. [23]
Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era, which names
precise communication as a “foundational principle”, was
originally published in December 2020 and republished in
March 2021. [24] In June 2022, China Daily’s editor-in-chief further
noted that “continually increasing the precision… of [China’s]
international communication” is among the outlet’s forwardlooking goals.
Theories of Target Selection
While the CCP’s policies regarding target selection are not
known, communications researchers and media practitioners
in China have provided a number of theories elaborating how
external propaganda based on country-level distinctions
and sub-country groups could work in practice. They tend to
focus on: distinctions between ethnicity, culture, religion, and
similar factors; overall bilateral relations between China and
the target; and individual characteristics such as profession,
gender, and hobbies. These are not authoritative descriptions
of internal policy, but such research is likely similar to the kinds
of discussions being had, and decisions being made, inside the
CCP’s propaganda apparatus.
5 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
Among the earliest academic articulations of how
propaganda targets could be grouped is a 2015 article by the
same Hunan University scholars previously cited. They argue
that international communication audiences should be grouped
into 2 broad categories with sub-groups that determine the goal
and content of China’s international communications, which are
described below. Their ideas attracted the party’s attention: this
article was first published in People’s Daily and republished by
the SCIO and by the website of the CCP’s premier theoretical
journal, Qiushi Online (求是网; QS Theory). [25]
• “Fundamental” ( 基本盘 ) Category: Strengthening
communication with audiences in this category is critical
to increasing China’s overall international communication
power. The authors do not explicitly say why, but it
is most likely because they believe audiences in this
category will help establish a base of people who trust
and share China’s communications. Audiences include: 1)
Chinese people living overseas; 2) people in peripheral
countries (regions); 3) people in “third-world countries”;
4) people in countries (regions) that are traditionally
friendly to China; and 5) people in other countries
with “relatively close economic, political, and cultural
connections” with China.
• “Key” ( 重点盘 ) Category: Communication with audiences
in this category is important for strengthening China’s
“right to speak”. The main audiences in this category
are people in Western developed countries, namely in
Europe and the US, as well as Western think tanks. This
is because Western media enjoys a “monopoly of global
communication resources” that countries in this category
use to set global public opinion and because Western
think tanks influence global governments.
The authors from Hunan University further argue that
communication content should be sorted into “fundamental”
and “key” categories also. The fundamental content category
involves using finance, science and technology, education,
culture, health, sports, and other topics to “disseminate
information, delegate knowledge, [and] provide entertainment”
(传播信息、传授知识、提供娱乐) because these issues have
relatively little ideological color and will be more readily accepted
by international audiences. The key content category involves
“disseminating China’s voice, China’s proposals, [and] China’s
positions [to] influence and guide public opinion and strengthen
China’s right to speak”.
The most explicit, semi-authoritative statement on how
targeting should occur under One Country, One Policy is found
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
in the aforementioned 2017 article by then-deputy CRI head Hu
Bangsheng. Hu discusses the need to understand the following
characteristics of “every country”: historical culture, economic
development level, social development phase, religious faith,
customs and habits, and the personal interests of audiences.
Within countries, Hu emphasizes the “situations” of different
regions, different ethnicities, and different languages. [26] Also
writing in 2017, a scholar from East China Normal University’s
School of Marxism (华东师范大学马克思主义学院) has advocated
that the precise communication of China’s core socialist values
can target propaganda based on an analysis of the value
orientation and interests of political groups (such as level of
government, public work units, and civil-social organizations)
and occupational fields (such as agriculture, industry, commercial
sector, and services). While this scholar is largely concerned
with domestic propaganda work, they explicitly see China’s core
socialist values as a cultural export and assert that the target
audience should include Chinese people in Hong Kong, Macau,
Taiwan, and other jurisdictions.
While China’s communications infrastructure is now global
in scope, [27] some Chinese researchers argue that external
communications should more narrowly focus on countries, and
their audiences, where influence will best serve China’s political,
economic, and cultural interests. [28] From this perspective, other
researchers from Hunan University suggest classifying target
countries according to an “inverted pin” (倒品字) model. [29] In
this model, target countries would be selected based on the
relationship between their distance from China in terms of
geography, culture, psychology, and language; the international
influence they possess; and China’s interests. [30]
Other researchers have proposed a more comprehensive
and forward-looking model for how China should achieve precise
communication based on stratification (分层), classification (
分类), and grouping (分群), as defined below. This model was
put forward in 2021 by Hu Zhengrong, former CUC dean and
the current head of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences’
Journalism and Communication Research Institute (中国社会科
学院新闻与传播研究所), and a media practitioner [31] affiliated with
China Media Group’s (CMG; 中央广播电视总台) Hong Kong-MacauTaiwan Programs Center (港澳台节目中心). Hu and his co-author
argue that stratified communication, classified communication,
and group communication are a principle (原则), a strategy (策略),
and a method (方法), respectively. Although the authors do not
explicitly call this a “model”, when viewed together, the 3 features
can be understood as an outline for a potential future “Chinese
discourse and Chinese narrative system of systems” (中国话语
和中国叙事体系) that involves participation from government,
media, companies, and think tanks.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 6
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Appendix A presents a diagram of the model proposed by
Hu and his co-author with their examples of specific targets and
suggestions for how to differentiate content based on target
audience characteristics. The core components of the model
are summarized below:
• Stratification: This means differentiating among various
social classes, such as political elites and the masses,
and communicating with these classes in different
manners, with different content.
• Classification: This means A) differentiating the roles
that various entities within China play in international
communication and B) differentiating discourse targets,
first regionally, then gradually by country.
• Grouping: This means targeting content and choosing
communication channels to be maximally effective for
granular segments of a given social class, country, or
region based on factors like the target audience’s gender,
religion, interests, and hobbies.
Interestingly, Hu and his co-author assert that One Country,
One Policy has fallen short of its goals due to limited human
capital, funding, and dissemination channels (渠道手段). They
state that implementing One Country, One Policy in the short
term is still “very challenging” from the perspective of 2021,
and that “completely realizing [the goal of] closely sticking
to different countries and adopting different communication
methods is not realistic” at this time. Achieving this is still the
ultimate goal, but it first requires improvements to China’s overall
discourse system. This is why they argue that China should first
differentiate (classify) based on regions or blocs of countries
and gradually work toward achieving One Country, One Policy.
Actors: The Right Voice for the Message
While official party-state media outlets are almost certainly
among the leading implementers of precise communication efforts
given their public opinion guidance mission, others are also very
likely involved. As discussed below, precise communication is
most likely converging with other external propaganda strategies
that focus on finding the right communicator for achieving
influence among a target audience.
Authoritative sources such as Propaganda and Thought
Work in the New Era do not explicitly identify what entities
are responsible for carrying out this strategy. Given precise
communication’s status as a “foundational principle” for external
propaganda, it is likely meant to be implemented or facilitated by
a wide range of entities that contribute to China’s international
communications. The entities and types of entities named in
academic writing on precise communication, news reports about
One Country, One Policy in practice, and the discussion [32] in
Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era regarding how
the CCP’s external propaganda is implemented broadly include,
but are not limited to:


CCP Central Propaganda Department


State Council Information Office [33]


Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA; 外交部)


Propaganda departments (宣传部门) [34]


Local government departments [35]


“Mainstream media” (主流媒体) [36]


State-owned and private enterprises


Chinese think tanks [37]


While the focus of precise communication is on finding out
what to say to the right audience and how to say it for maximum
effect, some researchers also assert that China must select
the right communicator for disseminating information to the
target. The model put forward by Hu Zhengrong and his coauthor includes such an argument, for example (see Appendix A).
Although not always linked to precise communication explicitly,
this idea is often seen alongside it in writings that discuss the
trajectory of the CCP’s strategy. As noted in the “CCP External
Propaganda Work” background section, since at least 2004, the
CCP has sought to coordinate the dissemination of its narratives
and preferred image of China internationally through a variety
of entities that form a “chorus” of voices and “tell China’s story
well on every battlefront”. [38]
The following sections, “Preparing the Keys” and “Opening the
Locks”, also discuss how social media and marketing companies
in China and abroad aid China’s propaganda apparatus by
providing behavioral data, audience surveys, advertising tools,
and other support. Additionally, while beyond the scope of this
report, it is noteworthy that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA;
中国人民解放军) is very likely exploring and implementing precise
communication as part of its own influence operations. [39]
Preparing the Keys: Understanding the Audience
Tailoring content according to the beliefs and interests of
target audiences, party-state media and other elements of the
propaganda apparatus requires as strong an understanding as
possible of those audiences. Propaganda and Thought Work in
the New Era, CCP leaders, party-state media practitioners, and
academics all agree on this point. [40] Country studies research,
in-country surveys, and online behavioral data are the means
of attaining this understanding; indeed, the internet and social
media are what make increasingly granular forms of precise
communication possible in both political and marketing contexts. [41]
As implementation of precise communication deepens, such
data will almost certainly increasingly shape the CCP’s external
propaganda output — the “keys” that will “unlock” different
international audiences.
7 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Figure 2: Percentage of precise communication articles that reference big data or AI; see Appendix B for methodology (Source: Chinese academic database; compiled by
Recorded Future)
After Xi Jinping’s 2016 remarks emphasizing “research [into]
the habits and characteristics of different foreign audiences”,
Hu Bangsheng stressed the necessity of conducting “empirical
research on different countries, regional research, and audience
research” in 2017. [42] A researcher affiliated with the Wenzhou
University Public Opinion and Online Information Security
Research Center (温州大学舆情与网络信息安全研究中心) likewise
asserted in 2018 that implementing One Country, One Policy
necessitates “fully surveying, researching, and analyzing the
political background, legal system, ethnic religion, customs,
and cultural traditions, [and other elements] of the audiences of
different countries . . . [and] making external [communicators]
become specialized talent that ‘knows some country’ or ‘knows
some aspect of some country’”. The director of the National
Discourse Research Center (国家话语研究中心) at Suzhou
University of Science and Technology (苏州科技大学) has further
highlighted the requirement of “strengthening regional and
country theoretical studies . . . on-the-ground survey research…
[and achieving] a basic understanding of a specific audience
group’s interests, hobbies, needs, and values”.
A topic of discussion for a third or more of precise
communication research articles since 2015 [43] is the role of big
data and AI (see Figure 2). Multiple researchers, including the
director of Xinhua’s Journalism Research Institute, have argued
that “user portraits” (用户画像) created on the basis of “interest
tags” (兴趣标签) and other personal information and online
behavioral data are a requirement for implementing precise
communication. As early as 2014, the then-executive deputy
director (常务副主任) of the Global Times Public Opinion Survey
Center (环球舆情调查中心), a subsidiary of Global Times (环球时
报), suggested that such data could be used to identify audience
preferences, the appropriate voice, and the best time for
disseminating information as part of determining not just “what
to say” (说什么) but also “how to say it” (怎么说) for maximum
effect. [44] Writing about domestic propaganda in 2017, the theneditor-in-chief (总编辑) of People’s Daily Online and president of
the People’s Daily Online Research Institute (人民网研究院) went
further, suggesting that precise communication should also be
informed by combining an individual’s behavioral data with data
about their physical setting (场景). [45]
In a co-authored 2021 article, the director of, and a public
opinion analyst (舆情分析师) from, China Daily’s International
Communication Research Office (中国日报社国际传播研究室)
acknowledged the need for surveys and behavioral data. They
stress that Chinese media needs to use “internet technology”
and “big data technology” to continue improving its ability to
produce information according to international opinion and based
on the kind of reporting that has worked in the past. This effort,
the authors write, demands “strengthening overseas audience
research”, which can be facilitated by “new media methods” (that
is, data collection) and “cooperation with international third
party survey consulting companies”; more closely studying how
readers interact with published media items (also pointing to
behavioral data); and creating a “3-in-1 ‘public opinion-audienceeffect’ monitoring system”. Writing in June 2022, the editorin-chief of China Daily asserted that the outlet’s international
communications research departments are focused on “using
big data, artificial intelligence, and other methods to achieve
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 8
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
precision-ization [精准化]” as part of establishing a “good
foundation for enhancing [China’s] ability to set the agenda“.
Notably, the focus on bulk data is not limited to discussion of
precise communication but relates to broader thinking on how
AI and data can empower the propaganda apparatus to more
effectively preempt and mitigate threats. [46]
Country and Audience Surveys
A major contributor to China’s survey efforts is the Academy
of Contemporary China and World Studies (ACCWS; 当代中国
与世界研究院), a think tank subordinate to the China Foreign
Languages Publishing Administration (CFLPA; 中国外文出版发行事
业局), which is itself a work unit of the CCP’s Central Propaganda
Department. [47] Since 2013, ACCWS has produced the annual
China National Image Global Survey Report (中国国家形象全球调
查报告). [48] International market research firms, namely Millward
Brown, Lightspeed Research, and Kantar Group (which owns
the first 2 firms [49] ), have conducted the surveys for all of these
publications. These and other surveys create data that Chinese
media and the propaganda apparatus use to demonstrate
China’s achievements under the CCP’s leadership, as well as
data that almost certainly informs communication strategy and
international communication planning.
ACCWS’s surveys evaluate current perceptions of China
in different parts of the world and ask, since 2014, forward-
looking questions about what different groups want to see.
They ask respondents which China-related topics they are most
interested in, with response options including politics, military,
sports, culture, and other categories. They also ask respondents
in which areas they would like to see China play a larger role in
global governance, with response options including economics,
security, ecology, and other areas. Responses to these and
similar questions are typically broken out into developed versus
developing countries and 3 different age groups for the public
report. Although ACCWS’s reports do not dwell on country
differences or differences between respondents of different age
groups in various countries, it is clear that the surveys generate
such data.
ACCWS also conducts other, more focused survey research
to understand perceptions of China. For example, ACCWS
presented results from its study titled “China and the World in
the Eyes of International Youth” (国际青年眼中的中国与世界) in
October 2021. Since at least 2014, ACCWS, in partnership with
1 or more of the foreign firms named above and other entities in
China, has produced a series of reports on international views
toward Chinese enterprises. The 2020 edition of these reports
focused on 12 countries participating in the Belt and Road
Initiative. [50]
Party-state media outlets further fund their own survey
research to improve foreign-facing products. For example, China
Xinhua News Network Corporation (CNC; 中国新华新闻电视网有
限公司) [51] sought to evaluate its international communication in
October 2017. [52] According to procurement records, the contract
winner agreed to conduct surveys in New York, London, and
“major countries and cities in Africa” to help CNC understand its
overall effect internationally; understand the effects of its “major
international partnered communications”, overseas distribution
centers, documentaries, and other projects; and learn how to
increase its competitiveness by retaining current audiences
and attracting new viewers. The project was sole-sourced to
CTR Market Research (央视市场研究股份有限公司), a joint venture
between China International Television Corporation (国国际电视
总公司) and Kantar Group. [53]
In June 2021, CMG [54] similarly solicited bids for conducting
surveys to understand the reach and impact of their worldwide
TV, broadcast, website, and social media presence. [55] According
to the tender announcement, CMG budgeted 7.5 million RMB
(approximately 1.2 million USD) for this project and sought to
collect data from no less than 500 people in each of 52 countries
and 41 languages. [56] The surveys were required to evaluate
the visibility, contact, spread, trust, satisfaction, favorability,
authority, market competitiveness, and comprehensive
communication power of CMG’s various dissemination channels.
They were further intended to address the overall efficacy of
CMG’s content in all languages within a single country, as well
as the overall efficacy of CMG’s content across all countries
speaking a given language. The final deliverable was also required
to include summaries of the culture and media environment (such
as which short-form and long-form video platforms are popular)
of all countries surveyed. Global Times 4-D Market Survey, also
known as the Global Times Public Opinion Survey Center, won a
modified version [57] of this tender. [58]
Party-state media and other entities are also leading the
creation of new research entities to explore target audience
attitudes in more depth. For example, China Daily established
a Generation Z Research Center (Z世代研究中心) in 2022 with
“the Department of Sociology of Peking University, the School
of Journalism of Fudan University in Shanghai, the School of
International Journalism and Communication at Beijing Foreign
Studies University, the Institute of Sociology at the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences, the Bilibili Institute for Public Policy
and the Beijing Shengtao Institute of Educational Development
and Innovation”. [59] The results of a 2022 Global Generation
Z Insights Report, “based on questionnaires and in-depth
interviews with 3,000 young people in 50 countries and regions,
including China, France, Egypt, South Korea, the United Kingdom
and the US”, were released at the inaugural ceremony of this
9 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
new think tank. Earlier, in 2021, China Daily reportedly signed
a cooperation agreement with the External Propaganda Office
of Shanghai (上海市委外宣办) to establish a think tank aimed at
“innovation for ‘Generation Z’ international communication theory
and practice”.
Behavioral Data Collection
Public opinion monitoring is an industry unto itself in China,
write Jessica Batke, ChinaFile senior editor, and Dr. Ohlberg.
In addition to serving commercial and security purposes, this
industry supports the work of party-state media in China
and abroad. The companies and research centers that offer
international public opinion monitoring and related online
marketing services provide a basis for conducting precision
communication. Demonstrating that the link between such
services and information influence is recognized in China, an
associate senior public opinion analyst (主任舆情分析师) at the
People’s Daily Online Public Opinion Data Center (人民网舆情数
据中心) has pointed to the 2016 US election influence scandal
involving Cambridge Analytica — whose core service is “better
audience targeting” — and Facebook in discussing the “guidance
and intervention” phase of public opinion research. [60] During the
2020 US presidential election, the People’s Daily Online Public
Opinion Data Center reportedly “carried out collection of all
content issued by the personal . . . accounts of Joe Biden and
Donald Trump” on a popular American social media platform.
The center further conducted analyses to “compare differences
in the political persons, key opinion leaders [KOL; 关键意见领袖],
and media that often engaged” with Biden and Trump.
China Daily likewise seeks to harness foreign online data
through commercial industry to understand the effects of its
reporting, guide topic selection, and be forewarned of sensitive
events. For instance, China Daily is a “partner” (合作伙伴) of
China Data Matrix Technology (Beijing) Limited (中数经纬科技(北
京)有限公司), and the China Daily (Hong Kong) Big Data Center
(中国日报(香港)大数据中心 specifically is almost certainly a
client of this company. China Data Matrix is a media monitoring
company that claims to have “complete coverage” of Facebook,
Pinterest, Instagram, Linkedin, YouTube, Line, and other major
platforms, web portals, communities, forums, and blogs from
over 100 countries and 10 languages. Their products support
“coverage and dynamic updating of foreign social media KOL in
every country, [with] precise and real-time directed collection
and monitoring”, and are capable of generating user portraits.
Xinhua News Agency has a subsidiary known as Beijing
Xinhua Multimedia Data (北京新华多媒体数据有限公司), or Xinhua
Data (新华大数据) for short, which operates a Public Opinion
Monitoring Platform (“新华大数据”舆情监测平台) that collects
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
data from 4,500 foreign websites, including some in Hong Kong,
Macau, and Taiwan. Xinhua Data’s “partners” include Xinhua
News Agency, Xinhuanet (新华网), [61] People’s Daily Online, and
CCTV. On a single popular American social media platform,
Xinhua’s platform covers 6 million accounts, “supporting search
and collection on more than 2,000 key words”. This is less than
3% of the platform’s overall user base, suggesting Xinhua is likely
selectively targeting accounts (or types of accounts) of interest.
Procurement documents analyzed by The Washington Post’s
Cate Cadell likewise show that party-state media and others
have sought programs that monitor prominent foreign journalists,
academics, and “key personnel from political, business and
media circles”. Other companies appear to cast a much wider
net; Global Tone Communications Technology (中译语通科技股份
有限公司), a company indirectly subordinate to the CCP’s Central
Propaganda Department, “facilitates bulk data collection . . . from
traditional and social media”. The company “claims that one of
its . . . [media monitoring] platforms . . . collects 10 terabytes of
data per day, and about 2–3 petabytes per year”.
In some cases, there appears to be a discrepancy between
the marketing of companies and research centers in the public
opinion monitoring industry and their actual capabilities. Beijing
TRS Information Technology (北京拓尔思信息技术股份有限公司),
whose clients include People’s Daily, Xinhua, and other major
outlets, offers a platform that claims to collect from foreign
sources. However, the company’s sample products demonstrating
collection capability during the 2020 Black Lives Matter protests
in the US indicate that “62.16 percent of more than 23.5 million
messages and articles analyzed . . . were pulled from Weibo or
WeChat. In contrast, just 3.43 percent of the messages analyzed
came from non-Chinese media sources”.
Still, it is clear that the party-state is intent on pursuing
research into technologies and data processing techniques
that will facilitate improvements to AI’s application in targeted
external propaganda work. [62] The International Communication
Big Data Intelligent Laboratory (国际传播大数据智能实验室), for
instance, is a research entity dedicated to this pursuit. This
laboratory was jointly established in April 2019 by the CFLPA
and Renmin University of China (中国人民大学), specifically the
Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence. In September 2021,
the laboratory began soliciting bids for research on: “Model
Construction and Strategy of International Communication Big
Data Region and Country Profiles”; “Intelligent Profile Modeling
for International Communication with Youth Groups on the Mobile
Internet”; and “Big Data Evaluation Model for the Influence of
International Social Media Opinion Leaders”.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 10
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Opening the Locks: Delivering Tailored Content
The adoption of a precise communication-based strategy
is moving the CCP’s entire propaganda apparatus toward the
creation and dissemination of media products that are tailored to,
and intended to be enjoyable for, specific segments of audiences.
To do this, the CCP is relying on media localization, joint content
production partnerships, distribution contracting, and almost
certainly advertising tools from international internet companies.
Xi Jinping asserted in 2015 that “wherever audiences are . . .
that is where the focus of propaganda and thought work is and
[where its] foothold must be placed”. Considered alongside the
tenets of the precise communication strategy defined above, this
means finding groups who, from the party’s perspective, need
to be influenced and giving them bespoke products embedded
with the CCP’s messages — that is, using targeted propaganda
to turn these “locks”.
Media Localization
Discussing both precise communication and One Country,
One Policy, Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era
calls on CCP cadres to “deepen implementation of the [media]
localization strategy. . . . connect [接] to local ‘flavor’ [本土“地气”],
assemble local ‘personalities’ [当地“人气”] . . . [and] encourage the
creation of overseas localized production centers, dissemination
centers, [and] promotion centers”, among other actions. [63] A form
of deeper localization beginning in 2015 is seen in the relationship
between the American media conglomerate Discovery and the
China Intercontinental Communication Center (CICC; 五洲传播
中心). [64] These entities have collaborated since at least 2004 to
create China-related TV programming, and strengthened their
partnership in 2015 when they signed a 3-year agreement to
launch “a dedicated programming block” called “Hour China”.
This block was aired “weekly on Discovery Channel across
[the] Asia-Pacific, reaching more than 90 million viewers in 37
countries and territories”, and was reportedly “the first time that
an international media company . . . launched a . . . programming
block of this scale dedicated solely to China”. That same year,
“Xinhua and the China Daily newspaper started using automatic
geolocation to redirect [users] to a specific language version of
their page on Facebook”.
In late 2021, Discovery’s Southeast Asia Channel and
some regional versions of the online platforms Discovery+ and
Amazon Prime Video began airing Journey of the Warriors, a
joint production between Discovery, Tencent Video (腾讯视频),
and CICC. Research on this show by China Media Project finds
that the “‘adventure documentary’”, which follows 5 celebrities
as they retrace the Long March, has been recognized in China
as an example of “‘Turning External Propaganda Documentaries
into Blockbusters for the World to See’” and of “‘perfectly
integrating stories of revolutionary history with the international
communication discourse system in a way that foreigners find
easy to understand and accept’”. China Media Project also
found the show “truly entertaining” at times, noting that this
has historically been a rare achievement for China’s external
propaganda products.
Distribution agreements with foreign media are another
form of localization. An example of this tactic is seen in China
Daily’s “China Watch” (中国观察报) content, which in 2021 was
“designed according to the situations of different countries,
different languages, and different audiences” and inserted into
30 foreign media outlets in 23 countries. Also in 2021, China
Daily disseminated 17,000 articles in various languages to more
than 200 “foreign mainstream media web portals and platforms”,
a 143% increase from the previous year.
At least some distribution agreements include explicit
requirements related to precise communication. In 2019, the
government of Hainan and Russia’s state-owned news agency
TASS signed a cooperation agreement. Procurement records
from December 2021 related to this 5-year agreement state that
it is intended to “strengthen communication of Sanya’s [65] policies,
opportunities, and achievements in Belt and Road Initiative
countries . . . by sticking closely to the precise communication
methods of [differentiating between] different areas, different
countries, and different groups”. [66] A contract issued to the
Hainan-based media company that manages the relationship
with TASS — Hainan Hesi Zhongmei Cultural Media Company (
海南合思众美文化传媒有限责任公司) — stipulates that coverage of
Hainan should be distributed, presumably by TASS, via:

Other Russian news outlets and those in Belarus,

Kazakhstan, and Azerbaijan

Social media, including Facebook, YouTube, and Russian

social media platforms VKontakte (VK) and Odnoklassniki
(OK)

Russian-speaking key opinion leaders (KOLs)

Furthermore, distribution platforms and target audiences
should be prioritized based on age, profession, income, education
level, industry, and interests. [67] The overall goal of the contract is
to attract “famous international firms” and “exceptional talent” to
Hainan, as well as target Generation-Z audiences. [68]
11 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
Global internet companies offer a similar opportunity to that
seen in the TASS contract, whereby precise communication
goals are furthered by providing access to audience data that
party-state media would otherwise be challenged to obtain. In
case studies for the ChinaTalk newsletter, Maggie Baughman
has highlighted, based on procurement records, how Chinese
government entities are almost certainly benefiting from
Facebook’s advertising tools. At least 2 government tourism
departments have contracts with Beijing Yiqilian Technology
Company (北京亿起联科技有限公司), whose platform “PandaMobo”
(熊猫新媒) is an “official partner” (官方合作伙伴) of Google, TikTok,
Facebook, and other prominent platforms. On Facebook, and
presumably with the help of its audience analytics, Beijing
Yiqilian runs a “Visit Xiamen” page and distributes other content
that contributes to perceptions of China. These tools include
data on user age, gender, interests, behavior, and “precise”
location. [69] Although the focus of the Hainan-TASS and Yiqilian’s
local government contracts described here is not overtly political,
economy and tourism are part of CCP external propaganda work
and contribute to China’s overall international image. [70] Moreover,
these pathways are almost certainly the same as those that
overt political narratives will flow through.
Social Media Differentiation
How China’s diplomats and party-state media use foreign
social media accounts is also very likely informed by the tenets of
precise communication. At the inaugural China Internet Civilization
Conference (中国网络文明大会) in 2021, MFA spokesperson Zhao
Lijian (赵立坚) asserted that “we” — presumably meaning China
writ large, which includes the diplomatic corps — “use language
that Western audiences understand, methods that [make them]
listen [听得进], [and] content that [they will] believe to make
China’s narrative become the world narrative and international
consensus”.
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
As of March 1, 2021, there were at least 270 Chinese diplomats
stationed in 126 countries that had accounts on major international
social media platforms. Most diplomatic accounts, including
those for embassies and consulates, were created in or after
2015, with a surge in 2019 (see Figure 4). Their communications,
especially those with more personalized accounts, have been
analyzed in the context of precise communication by Chinese
researchers. For example, scholars from the Arab Studies Institute
at Beijing Foreign Studies University (北京外国语大学阿拉伯学院)
argue that China’s ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Chen Weiqing
(陈伟庆), addresses the “information and cultural psychological
needs” of his audience, attends to the “issue of ‘what does
the audience want to understand’ and ‘what do we want the
audience to understand’”, and achieves “precise communication”.
Chen, the authors assert, presents himself as an “old friend”,
lively, kind, modest, and cultured, instead of as a “serious and
cautious diplomat in the traditional sense”, thereby increasing the
“affinity” of his messages among the target audience. They find
that 97% of Chen’s posts are in Arabic, and that Chen focuses on
cultural topics (such as calligraphy) and social issues (such as
youth employment) while expressing respect for and interest in
Saudi Arabian culture and development. The latter emphasis, the
scholars assert, is in contrast to the criticism that Saudi Arabia
receives from the West.
A 2022 analysis by BBC Monitoring and CASM Technology
of 691 international social media accounts used by China’s
ambassadors, consular officials, the MFA, and Confucius
Institutes found variations in the content pushed toward different
regions (see Figure 3). For instance, “Africa, the Asia Pacific and
the Americas saw a greater emphasis on Covid”, while “Europe
and the Americas saw much greater emphasis on culture” and
“the Middle East saw a greater emphasis on politics”.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 12
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Figure 3: Percentage of social media content published by China’s ambassadors, consular officials, the MFA, and Confucius Institutes in a given region in French, Arabic, Spanish
or English according to topic (Source: BBC Monitoring)
Party-state media outlets have steadily created accounts on
international social media since the “2009-2020 Overall Plan for
Building My Country’s Key Media International Communication
Capabilities” was initiated (see Figure 4). These include multiple
accounts for a single outlet that are meant to cater to audiences
in different regions. Perhaps the clearest example of how partystate media is very likely implementing precise communication
on social media is the proliferation of influencer personas,
which is discussed in the following subsection. However, some
of the content distributed both on social media and on party
state media websites appears intended — in accordance with
precise communication — to blend CCP narratives into popular
culture and image- and song-based viral internet culture (in
other words, meme culture). For example, in April 2022, Global
Times published a video to YouTube of a series of political
cartoons containing “hidden” messages and set to music that
depicted the US as an evil global hegemon. Among the images
are renderings of Voldemort, the villain in the Harry Potter books,
in the Oval Office, and a masked presidential figure sitting on
the Iron Throne of the Game of Thrones TV show, also in the
Oval Office (see Figure 5 and Figure 6). The English version of
People’s Daily Online has published cartoons likening the US
to Voldemort as well, and Xinhua has disseminated refutations
of US criticisms of China related to COVID-19 in the form of
mock trading cards that imitate the Japanese game Yu-Gi-Oh!
Although not explicitly acknowledged, this style of content is
likely intentionally designed with precise communication in mind;
the apparent goal is to appeal to people who enjoy these popular
products (Harry Potter, Game of Thrones, and Yu-Gi-Oh!).
13 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Figure 4: Number of social media accounts for China’s “Embassies, Ambassadors, Consuls or Consulates, as well as staffers if clearly indicated in their profile” (Diplomat
Accounts) and party-state media, specifically the accounts of “10 of the largest state-controlled media entities” (state-backed media) (Source: Oxford Internet Institute)
Figure 5: A Global Times image depicting a cloaked and masked presidential figure on the Iron
Throne in the Oval Office; as explained via YouTube, the rabid hounds symbolize the US-led
“cliques” of NATO, AUKUS, the Quad, and G7 (Source: Global Times)
Figure 6: A Global Times image depicting Voldemort in the Oval Office; as explained via YouTube,
the crate labeled “Afghanistan” symbolizes how the US “stole life-saving money from Afghan people”
(Source: Global Times)
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 14
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
The alleged social media activities of OneSight (Beijing)
Technology (一网互通（北京）科技有限公司) — which has held
party-state media contracts in the past — further bridge the
gap between data collection, implementation of personalized
communication, and the use of inauthentic social media accounts.
OneSight is a marketing company that provides “overseas social
media real-time public opinion monitoring” and a “growth platform
based in overseas social media user behavior”. Their products
collect data from Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, YouTube, and
other major services and can generate user portraits with the
goal of facilitating “precise positioning marketing” (精准定位营
销). In 2018 and 2019, the company had contracts with China
News Service (中国新闻社 and 中国新闻网) to promote the outlet
on American social media platforms. [71] In 2021, the company won
a contract for “advertising promotion” of a China Daily subsidiary
on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, YouTube, and other sites. [72] In
August 2019, ProPublica began tracking a “coordinated influence
campaign” related to the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong
that year and later to COVID-19. The campaign involved more than
10,000 fake or hacked accounts, including those with personas
such as the wife of a Hong Kong policeman and branding that
imitated foreign news sources like Radio Free Asia. ProPublica’s
investigation tentatively linked the campaign to OneSight, whose
marketing materials imply the company can create “more natural
and healthy”-looking followers.
The very likely China-linked DRAGONBRIDGE influence
campaign documented by Mandiant since 2019 also
demonstrates tactics that align with precise communication
and show a notable understanding of DRAGONBRIDGE’s target
environment and the factors that could influence its specific
targets. Mandiant assesses that, in early to mid-2022, these
targets were US and Canadian competitors of Chinese firms in
the rare earths industry. To undermine these competitors, the
campaign’s inauthentic accounts posed “as residents in Texas to
feign concern over environmental and health issues surrounding”
the development of a specific rare earth minerals processing
facility in the US state. The accounts further amplified genuine
criticism from “both ends of the political spectrum” related to
President Biden’s use of the Defense Production Act to increase
America’s supply of critical minerals. DRAGONBRIDGE reportedly
spans “30 social media platforms and over 40 additional websites
and niche forums”. English, Chinese, Russian, German, Spanish,
Korean, and Japanese are used to distribute content that has, at
various times, sought to discredit the pro-democracy movement
in Hong Kong, criticized CCP critics, and promote theories that
COVID-19 originated in the US.
Influencers and Newsletters
The CCP’s growing use of influencers, KOLs, and other forms of
personalized communication is very likely informed (if not driven)
by the precise communication strategy, with research discussing
these concepts together limited but growing (see Figure 7).
In 2021, an editor (编辑) with Xinhua’s Journalism Research
Institute co-authored research into “personal brands” (个人IP [73] )
for external propaganda. [74] This research argued that “using the
free, flexible . . . [and] witty forms of personal accounts to carry
out communication is better able to [achieve] strong resonance
with overseas netizens”. [75] It further advocated expanding the
use of influencers, in part by establishing friendships with “key
opinion leaders in different areas [and in] different circles and
strata”. [76] Although this article does not specifically mention
precise communication, what is being described is in line with
the overall strategy. Some researchers, such as Hu Zhengrong
and his co-author cited above, do explicitly assess that internet
personalities would be effective implementers of their target
audience “grouping” concept (see Appendix A). This is because
they can take advantage of “the short video format” and because
“new media push [features] . . . are highly flexible [and] can
adjust personal setting, content theme, and expressive forms
at any time” based on their platform metrics and audience
feedback. Researchers affiliated with Tsinghua University have
further suggested that establishing a “personalized [KOL]
matrix” could help target different audiences, as well as take
advantage of diminished trust in mainstream media (particularly
in the US). These researchers also argue that influencers can be
used to overcome political pressure and “cancel culture” (取消
文化) that have led to the accounts of party-state media figures
and Chinese diplomats being labeled as such on international
social media platforms.
15 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Figure 7: Share of articles on influencers/KOLs that include reference to precise communication; see Appendix B for methodology (Source: Chinese academic database; compiled
by Recorded Future)
Notably, some research warns against overreliance on
influencers. The current deputy director of CUC’s Institute
for a Community of Shared Future (人类命运共同体研究院), for
instance, has argued that there are 2 main problems. First,
influencers primarily exist inside the digital economy, are subject
to market forces, and often focus on their number of followers
due to commercial incentives, which “does not equal the ability
to guide public opinion”. These facts are at odds with the political
and cultural mission of external propaganda and risk diminishing
the state’s role in coordinating communication forces. Second,
influencers create, or tend to exist in, “virtual clusters” (虚拟
群集) or echo chambers because audiences are built through
platform recommendations that match current user interests with
influencer content. This, it is argued, may worsen cross-country
and cross-cultural divisions in ways that are not conducive to the
“current strategic requirements of international communication
with the goal of building a community with a shared future for
mankind”.
Nevertheless, party-state media is pursuing this tactic. CMG
established its International Communications Planning Bureau (国
际传播规划局) in July 2019 — well after the emergence of precise
communication — with plans to “actively explore” external
propaganda “influencer studios” (网红工作室) as part of its efforts
to “continuously improve influence among youth and mainstream
groups [主流人群]”. CGTN and CRI, which are both part of CMG,
now have their own influencers and work with foreign internet
personalities. CRI in particular employs the majority of over 200
influencers tracked by Miburo Solutions. [77] They collectively
speak “at least two dozen different languages, which include
widely spoken languages like Arabic, Hausa, and Spanish, as well
as some lesser-known ones like Esperanto”.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 16
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Miburo Solutions’s research into the activities and tailored
messaging of state media influencers does not identify the
precise communications concept, but their findings closely
reflect its tenets and those of One Country, One Policy:
Lifestyle influencers whose target audiences live
primarily in developing countries often seek to portray
China as a potential benefactor and a trustworthy
diplomatic ally, while influencers that speak Southeast
Asian languages focus on Chinese infrastructure
projects in that region . . . Europe-focused influencers
frequently discuss environmental issues and China’s
importance as a global trade partner. Arabic-language
influencers, by contrast, often present cheerful
images of Muslim life in China and downplay the
overwhelming evidence of systemic human rights
abuses targeting Uyghurs and other Muslim minority
groups.
This kind of content is highly similar to the country-level
precise communication content guidelines (see Table 1) proposed
in research funded by CFLPA on international communication
efforts more broadly, conducted by a pair of researchers affiliated
with Beijing International Studies University (BISU; 北京第二外国
语学院). Specifically, the authors are from BISU’s Academy of
Culture and Communication (文化与传播学院) and the BISU CCP
Committee-subordinate External Propaganda Center (党委宣传
部外宣中心).
|Country|Suggested Content (Paraphrased)|
|---|---|
|Poland /Czechia78|Poland and Czechia are China’s largestEastern European trade partners. Afterthe establishment of the Cooperationbetween China and Central and EasternEuropean Countries (China-CEE) platformand the Belt and Road Initiative, thesecountries’ “look west” policies turnedtoward developing trade with China.However, many dialogues and potentialinvestments by Chinese companies havenot materialized. External propaganda,therefore, should focus on guiding China-Poland and China-Czechia companyexchanges and creating inter-businessdialogue mechanisms.|
|Romania|Romania experienced a violent regimechange in 1989 and is still in a transitionalperiod with wounds in its nationalmemory. Romanians are not receptiveto “the export of forceful concepts” (强制性的概念输出). Therefore, externalpropaganda should respect this as wellas respect Romania’s requirementsrelated to environmental protection and(presumably corporate) competition.|
|Hungary|Hungary is home to many Chineseinvestments and overseas Chinese. Itwas the first European Union memberto join the Belt and Road Initiative andfirst to establish an RMB clearing bank.Hungarian media reports about Chinademonstrate the country is highlyreceptive to China and Hungarian peopleare very open to Chinese culture. Still,the influx of Chinese entrepreneurs andcheap products have caused problems.External propaganda, therefore, shouldfocus on China’s high-tech developmentand the role of Chinese businesses inpromoting the local economy.|
Table 1: Ideas proposed by researchers for tailoring external propaganda to achieve China’s goals in
Eastern Europe (Source: International Communication)
|Country|Suggested Content (Paraphrased)|
|---|---|
|Latvia|Latvian people view the former SovietUnion as an invader and are wary ofRussia. The country’s media expressesalarm over China’s economic model andthe Belt and Road Initiative. Therefore,external propaganda should concentrateon China-Latvia economic cooperationand on how China has independentlysolved problems related to its economicdevelopment. External propagandashould avoid treating Latvia like a formerpartner in socialism and emphasizeLatvia’s cultural contributions to Europeand the world.|
17 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
While the content of lifestyle influencers is likely aimed
at mass audiences, English-language newsletters have been
assessed as serving precise communication aimed at elites. In
a 2021 article in Chinese Journalist (中国记者), the associate
senior editor (主任编辑) of Xinhua’s Journalism Research Institute
evaluated the English-language Pekingnology newsletter [79]
through this lens. This newsletter was founded by Wang Zichen
(王子辰), an associate senior reporter (主任记者) in the Topical
Commentary Office of the External Department of Xinhua News
Agency’s Headquarters (总社对外部评论专题室) in Beijing. [80] Based
on Pekingnology’s success — it has some 3,900 subscribers
that include “diplomats, correspondents, editors, think-tankers,
professors, lawyers, and investors” — the Chinese Journalist
article asserts that newsletters offer a direct line to the desks
of professionals and elite and are an “ideal carrier for ‘audience
differentiated expression’”.
Even if Pekingnology and other newsletters by Xinhua
journalists like Beijing Channel and Ginger River are personal,
as their authors claim, they are very likely only allowed to exist
because the Xinhua bureaucracy believes they serve the overall
goals of China’s international communication. Like other official
media, Xinhua carries out activities that outwardly appear more
personal than they are. In discussing the social media activities
of Xinhua journalist-turned-influencer Xu Zeyu (徐泽宇), who is
active on Facebook, YouTube, and other platforms, a 2021 Xinhua
news article states that toward the end of the previous year
“Xinhua News Agency especially created the Xu Zeyu Studio,
[which is] responsible for account content planning, production,
[and] overseas promotion”. Xu Zeyu’s online presence, the article
indicates, is a team and cross-departmental effort within Xinhua.
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
The Rest of the System
Party-state media localization efforts and, in particular, the
CCP’s use of influencers, are emblematic of what the propaganda
apparatus as a whole seeks to achieve. Scholars at Renmin
University of China’s School of Journalism (中国人民大学新闻学
院), for example, argued in late 2021 that external propaganda
for Southeast Asia should pursue precise communication in the
following ways:


In Laos and Cambodia: focus on TV and cultural shows


In Myanmar, Vietnam, and Malaysia: focus on new media


including short videos and interactive cartoons to avoid
domestic political controls over traditional media

In Brunei, Indonesia, Singapore, and the Philippines,

where the US has an advantage: focus on mobile internet
platforms like Facebook while expanding the use of
China’s mobile internet service providers so that it is
easier to communicate China’s voice
In addition to the activities of CICC, newsletter authors,
and influencers discussed above, Xinhua has profiled the One
Country, One Policy efforts of the Chengdu government via
YouTube, which includes the release of multiple videos and
series on different topics meant to target audiences in Singapore,
Japan, South Korea, and international youth (Generation-Z). In
other areas such as publishing, new promotional models seek
to deepen and innovate means of localization, academics are
discussing how to improve united front work, [81] and propaganda
officials urge the implementation of precise communication’s
tenets. Research published by Record Future has previously
documented how party-state entities and Chinese academics
are researching ways to embed CCP narratives in a wide variety
of cultural products aimed at foreign young people, including
movies, video games, and events. While it is a natural impulse
for any commercial industry to refine their products for maximum
appeal among a target market, the distinction in China’s case
is that the CCP has a clear interest in mobilizing these cultural
outputs in service of the party’s goals for itself and China.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 18
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Outlook
The CCP’s adoption of precise communication inherently
entails continued — and even expanded — global data collection
and research efforts. Accessing data on and understanding the
psychology of target audiences is both a prerequisite of success
and likely its greatest obstacle. Restrictions on the collection of
personal behavioral data such as the European Union’s General
Data Protection Regulation will challenge attempts to implement
precise communication in certain jurisdictions. However,
advertisers themselves are seeking different ways to continue
targeting audiences, such as through contextual ads that are
based on what a person is currently looking at. Party-state media
and the wider propaganda apparatus can be expected to follow
those trends and work with advertising programs to share the
CCP’s messages. In jurisdictions that maintain lax data privacy
laws, the CCP is likely to find more success.
Further, media localization efforts will persist. The
propaganda apparatus and party-state media has demonstrated
its ability to adapt and deploy (or at least allow) new forms of
communications — entertaining TV, influencers, and newsletters.
According to Georgia State University Associate Professor Dr.
Maria Repnikova, “over time, local journalists at Chinese outlets
. . . might be able to reshape Chinese media practices”, including
their level of balance and professionalism. [82] This evolution will
continue. The demonstrated adaptability, potential effects of
localization, and overall purpose of precise communication are
likely to lead to increasingly diverse content produced for the
countries and communities that the CCP seeks to influence.
Finally, efforts by foreign social media companies to counter
certain forms of influence, such as by labeling Chinese journalists
as being affiliated with the state, are a further complication. For
this reason, some researchers and media practitioners stress the
importance of creating and promoting China-owned platforms
(自有平台). Efforts to support the internationalization of such
platforms is likely to accelerate in the future.
19 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Appendix A: Model for Classified, Stratified, and Grouped External Propaganda
This model for international communication was described in 2021 by Hu Zhengrong, former CUC dean and the head of the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences’ Journalism and Communication Research Institute, and a media practitioner affiliated with
CMG’s Hong Kong-Macau-Taiwan Programs Center. The tables below are based on, and their contents closely paraphrased from,
Hu and his co-author’s discussion of how classification, stratification, and grouping can be used to achieve precise communication.
All examples of who to target and what content to use are identified in their research. The principal change made to Hu and his
co-author’s writing is presenting classification first rather than beginning with stratification. This was done to move from broadest
to narrowest targeting and for formatting purposes. For more information on this model, see the “Theories of Target Selection”
section.
|COMMUNICATION SUBJECTS(differentiate roles of entities disseminating the party-state’s messages)|Col2|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|GovernmentDepartments|Central / LocalMedia|Central / PrivateEnterprises|ThinkTanks|
|CLASSIFICATION(strategy layer)|DISCOURSE TARGETS(regional differentiation while country-level strategy develops)|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|CLASSIFICATION(strategy layer)|Asymmetric InformationAdvantage Countries(such as the UnitedStates)|• Begin by understanding the real concerns of these countries and actively respond• Use mainstream channels to reply to suspicions and concern politely• Show the true situation through images and texts, use exemplar/case data narratives toexplain the situation• Gradually move from passivity (replying to concerns) to proactivity, setting discoursetopics that are benefcial to China|
|CLASSIFICATION(strategy layer)|Understanding andWilling PartnerCountries|• Take “soft” communication as the main focus• Use sports, entertainment, art, food, and fashion to attract audience interest• Seek commonalities and avoid confict over political differences in ideology• Prevent concerns over the “China Threat Theory” caused by economic development andother aspects|
|CLASSIFICATION(strategy layer)|Belt and Road InitiativeMembers andFriendly Countries|• Try to proactively set the discourse topics• Explain China’s core values through concrete examples and stories• Introduce China’s development achievements and experiences in economics, povertyalleviation, and ecology|
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 20
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
|STRATIFICATION(principle layer)|DISCOURSE TARGETS(differentiation based on social class)|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|STRATIFICATION(principle layer)|Elite Classes|Political Elite|• Use formal language• Discuss politics and policy, such as consultative democracy, theprinciples of democratic centralism, and the China Dream• Focus on the commonality and compatibility of Chinese traditionalvalues with shared human values• Seek commonalities while letting differences exist• Globalize and humanize China’s stories to slowly increase the pulland appeal of China’s socialist core values|
|STRATIFICATION(principle layer)|Elite Classes|Academic Elite|• Use academic language, with emphasis on logic, research, andevidence• Infuse content with “thought” and critical thinking• Use theory, truth, and facts to clearly articulate why China acts, whythe Chinese Communist Party is capable, and why socialism withChinese characteristics is good• Analyze China’s supply-side structural reform, the new normal ofeconomic development, and environmental ecology concepts• Explore differences between Chinese values and systems and theother values and governance models of the world|
|STRATIFICATION(principle layer)|The Masses|Netizens /New Media Users|• Use “internet slang”, with words, grammar, and expressive forms thatstick to the modern times• Create diverse and agile content that stresses viewpoints andindividuality• Use “small but beautiful” Chinese stories• Use methods that are innovative, internationalized, and have“technology feel” to disseminate Chinese culture and China’s image|
|STRATIFICATION(principle layer)|The Masses|“Traditional” Masses|• Use common and easy to understand discourse with direct forms ofexpression• Focus on Chinese culture with strong popularity and universality• Supply cultural products that match the people’s interests likeChinese paper cutting, calligraphy, Chinese food, and other “surfaceculture” elements• Form a friendly and positive image of China to attract audiencesin the short term, and then subtly show Chinese values throughentertaining and popular expressions|
21 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
|GROUPING(method layer)|DISCOURSE TARGETS(differentiation-based granular understanding of the audience)|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|GROUPING(method layer)|DifferentiationParameters|• Gender• Religion• Age• Interests• Hobbies• Etc.|
|GROUPING(method layer)|ExemplarCommunicators:internet Infuencers|• Audience targeting by infuencers is highly fexible because of the short video format andnew media dissemination features• Infuencers can agilely adjust their personal settings, content themes, and expressive forms• Infuencers have the ability to continually refne their content to match target audience’sinterests based on content performance analytics and audience feedback|
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 22
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Appendix B: Methodology and Sources
This research draws from leadership speeches, authoritative documents, the writings of Chinese communication researchers
and party-state media practitioners, the actions of party-state media outlets, procurement records, corporate sources, and
previous foreign research. A 3-step process was used to create a sample of relevant sources that discuss, in whole or in part,
precise communication and related concepts in relation to the CCP’s external propaganda work:
Targeted searches were conducted on People’s Daily Online (人民网), Qiushi Online (求是网; QS Theory), the International
Communications (对外传播) periodical, [83] and similar sources. A series of 5 successive searches, some comprising multiple queries,
were conducted on a Chinese academic database to build a set of 2,104 unique academic articles (3,295 total academic articles
across all searches) that were used to explore the relationship between various concepts and themes as seen in Figure 1, Figure
2, and Figure 7. The specific methodologies for each of these figures are listed. Irrelevant articles, such as those related to
commercial advertising, were removed from the dataset based on title and the journal of publication. A portion of the articles in
this database were further assessed alongside materials from the sources mentioned above. Additional research was done to
find news media, academic materials, and corporate sources that elaborated on, or provided examples of, concepts discovered
through the results of the previous 2 steps.
The book Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era was also used. This work was collectively authored by the Cadre
Bureau (干部局) of the CCP Central Propaganda Department. It was published by the Central Propaganda Department-subordinate
Study Publishing House (学习出版社) in December 2020 and is labeled “cadre training teaching material” (干部培训教材). Given
these characteristics, Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era is very likely an authoritative statement on how the CCP has
determined to pursue ideological and propaganda work. Chapter 10 deals specifically with external propaganda aimed at overseas
audiences. The edition of the book reviewed for this report was published in March 2021.
Figure Methodologies:
• Figure 1. Emergence of Topics in External Propaganda Strategy Research: Academic articles that reference
“international communication” (国际传播), “external communication” (对外传播), or “external propaganda” (对外宣传) in the
title, abstract, or keywords and reference “precise communication” (精准传播; Yellow); ”One Country, One Policy” (一国一
策; Red); or “influencer” (网红) or “[key] opinion leader” [84] ([K]OL; 意见领袖; Green) anywhere in the text; the Control line
(Blue; Dotted) is all articles that reference “precise communication” in the title, abstract, or keywords regardless of the
topic, which include commercial marketing, domestic propaganda work, external propaganda, and others.
• Figure 2. Percentage of Precise Communication Articles that Reference Big Data or AI: Number of academic articles
that reference “international communication” (国际传播), “external communication” (对外传播), or “external propaganda”
(对外宣传) in the title, abstract, or keywords and reference “precise communication” (精准传播) anywhere in the text
(Yellow), divided by the number of articles with the same parameters that also reference “big data” (大数据) or ”artificial
intelligence” (人工智能; Blue) anywhere in the text.
• Figure 7. Share of Articles on Influencers/KOLs that Include Reference to Precise Communication: Academic articles
that reference “international communication” (国际传播), “external communication” (对外传播), or “external propaganda”
(对外宣传) in the title, abstract, or keywords and reference “influencer” (网红) or “opinion leader” (OL; 意见领袖; Blue)
anywhere in the text, and the portion of articles yielded in the same search that also reference “precise communication” (
精准传播) anywhere in the text (Red).
23 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
About the Author
Devin Thorne
Threat Intelligence Analyst, Insikt Group®
Devin Thorne is part of Insikt Group’s Global Issues Team at Recorded Future. His
research seeks to explain China’s security strategies through primary-language sources,
with an emphasis on propaganda work, maritime security, military-civil fusion, and
national defense mobilization. He holds a bachelors from the University of Alabama at
Birmingham and a masters from the Hopkins–Nanjing Center for Chinese and American
Studies. He speaks Mandarin.
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
About Insikt Group [®]
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group, the company’s threat research division, comprises
analysts and security researchers with deep government, law enforcement, military, and
intelligence agency experience. Their mission is to produce intelligence that reduces
risk for clients, enables tangible outcomes, and prevents business disruption.
About Recorded Future [®]
Recorded Future is the world’s largest intelligence company. The Recorded
Future Intelligence Platform provides the most complete coverage across adversaries,
infrastructure, and targets. By combining persistent and pervasive automated data
collection and analytics with human analysis, Recorded Future provides real-time
visibility into the vast digital landscape and empowers clients to take proactive
action to disrupt adversaries and keep their people, systems, and infrastructure safe.
Headquartered in Boston with offices and employees around the world, Recorded
Future works with more than 1,300 businesses and government organizations across
60 countries.
Learn more at recordedfuture.com and follow us on Twitter at @RecordedFuture.
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 24
​
​
​
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Endnotes
1 This report is closely related to my previous research presented in Elephants Must Learn to Street Dance: The Chinese Communist Party’s Appeal to Youth in Overseas
Propaganda, which documents the CCP’s interest in, and efforts toward, influencing young audiences globally through in-person experiences, books and comics, film and TV,
animation, video games, and other forms of media.
2 For more detailed discussions of the theories, goals, and evolution of the “right to speak” (also translated as “discourse power”) and “set the
agenda”, see Matt Schrader, Friends and Enemies: A Framework for Understanding Chinese Political Interference in Democratic Countries, Alliance for
Securing Democracy, April 22, 2020, 7-11; Nadège Rolland, China’s Vision for a New World Order, National Bureau of Asian Research, NBR Special
Report #83 (January 27, 2020): 7-13; and Mareike Ohlberg, Boosting the Party’s Voice: China’s Quest for Global Ideological Dominance, Mercator
Institute for China Studies, July 21, 2016.
3 “Chapter 3: News and Public Opinion Work” [第三章 新闻舆论工作], in Communist Party of China Central Propaganda Department Cadre Bureau [
中共中央宣传部干部局], Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era [新时代宣传思想工作], (Study Publishing House [学习出版社], 2021), 44, 51; for
more discussion, see this China Media Project Dictionary entry by David Bandurski.
4 The spokesperson system involves the creation of official spokesmen and women to represent the ministries and departments of the government and
CCP. For more information on the spokesperson system and post-2004 reforms, see Mareike Ohlberg, Creating a Favorable International Public Opinion
Environment: External Propaganda (Duwai Xuanchuan) as a Global Concept with Chinese Characteristics (Doctoral Thesis), (University of Heidelberg,
March 6, 2013), 9-12, 262-63, 414-25, 448-94.
5 For specific examples of these and other tactics, see Sarah Cook, Beijing’s Global Megaphone, Freedom House, January 2020; “Warriors on the
Red Road”, China Media Project, March 1, 2022; Koh Gui Qing and John Shiffman, “Beijing’s Covert Radio Network Airs China-Friendly News Across
Washington, and the World”, Reuters, November 2, 2015; Louisa Lim and Julia Bergin, “Inside China’s Audacious Global Propaganda Campaign”, The
Guardian, December 7, 2018; Louisa Lim, Julia Bergin, and Johan Lidberg, The COVID-19 Story: Unmasking China’s Global Strategy, International
Federation of Journalists, May 2021; The China Network: Inside China’s Global Media Mission in Asia, Africa and Latin America, International Federation
of Journalists, March 2022; Maria Repnikova, Cambridge Elements: Elements in Global China: Chinese Soft Power (Cambridge University Press, 2022),
21-28; and Ohlberg, Creating a Favorable International Public Opinion Environment, 426-37.
6 Computational propaganda “is the use of algorithms, automation, and human curation to purposefully distribute misleading information over social
media networks”.
7 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work” [第十章 对外宣传工作], in Propaganda and Thought Work in the New Era, 227.
8 Scott W. Harold, Nathan Beauchamp-Mustafaga, and Jeffrey W. Hornung, Chinese Disinformation Efforts on Social Media, RAND, 2021, 7-8, 65-76.
9 This report uses “propaganda” to refer to all of the CCP’s information influence activities, including what are often referred to in foreign literature
as disinformation operations, as well as various forms of experiential influence. Precise communication is a strategic concept in domestic propaganda
efforts in addition to overseas efforts, but specifically assessing its implementation within China lies outside of the scope of this research.
10 For examples of articles that acknowledge the link to advertising, see this People’s Daily editorial from 2013 that calls for “‘audience differentiated
sales’ consciousness” (“分众营销”意识) in relation to domestic propaganda work, and Zhang Hongling [张红玲], “Research on the Precise Communication
of ‘Handheld Media’” [“掌上传媒”的精准传播研究], Journalism Lover [新闻爱好者], 11 (2011): 40-41.
11 Alternatively, “fundamental principle”.
12 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 228-29.
13 Hu Bangsheng [胡邦盛], “How My Country’s External Propaganda Realizes Precise Communication” [我国对外宣传如何实现精准传播], Chinese
Cadres Tribune [中国党政干部论坛] (July 2017): 62-65. One Country, One Policy is a concept that guides other elements of China’s international
engagement beyond just external propaganda work, such as foreign trade policy, economic cooperation, and foreign lending. Assessing One Country,
One Policy in these contexts is beyond the scope of this report.
14 A variety of phrases are used in the discussions viewed during this research among CCP leaders and Chinese academics regarding how to reform
external propaganda along these lines. In addition to precise communication and One Country, One Policy, a non-exhaustive list includes audience
differentiation (分众化); precision-ization (精准化); precise delivery (精准投放); precise propaganda (精准宣传); precise push (精准推送); One Issue, One
Policy (一题一策); One Subject, One Policy (一主体一策; a “subject” in this context is the communicator, which speaks to an “object” [客体]); One Region,
One Policy (一区一策); One Matter, One Policy (一事一策); and One Country, Many Policies (一国多策).
15 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 228-29.
16 Ibid.
17 Based on the use of “precise communication” (精准传播) in the title, abstract, and keywords.
18 ​ Anne-Marie Brady, Marketing Dictatorship: Propaganda and Thought Work in Contemporary China (Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 2008),
69, 83-85.
19 For examples of articles that acknowledge the link to advertising, see this People’s Daily editorial from 2013 that calls for “‘audience differentiated
sales’ consciousness” (“分众营销”意识) in relation to domestic propaganda work, and Zhang Hongling [张红玲], “Research on the Precise Communication
of ‘Handheld Media’” [“掌上传媒”的精准传播研究], 40-41.
20 Hu, “How My Country’s External Propaganda Realizes Precise Communication”.
21 Hu Zhengrong [胡正荣], “The Three Essentials of International Communication: Omnimedia · One Country, One Policy · Precision-ization” [国际传播
三个关键：全媒体 · 一国一策 · 精准化], International Communications [对外传播], 8 (2017): 10-11.
22 Source held by Recorded Future.
23 Nadège Rolland, A New Great Game? Situating Africa in China’s Strategic Thinking, National Bureau of Asian Research, June 2021, 10.
24 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 228-29.
25 This was determined by searching Qiushi Online for the article title, which shows that the article was published there. However, the link is now
inactive.
26 Hu, “How My Country’s External Propaganda Realizes Precise Communication”.
27 Cheng Manli [程曼丽], “Historical Review and Prospects of China’s China’s External Communication (2009-2017)” [中国对外传播的历史回顾与展望
(2009—2017年)], Journalism and Writing [新闻与写作], 8 (2017): 5-9.
25 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
28 Xiang Zhiqiang [向志强] and He Wenjun [何文君], “Theories and Methods of Target Country Selection in China’s External Stratified Communication”
[中国对外分层传播目标国选择的理论与方法], Journal of Hunan University (Social Sciences) [湖南大学学报(社会科学版)], 32:3 (2018): 149-53.
29 This is the translation used by the Hunan University scholars.
30 Xiang and He, “Theories and Methods of Target Country Selection in China’s External Stratified Communication”.
31 This report generally avoids naming non-public individuals to protect their privacy. Named persons like Hu Zhengrong, Hu Bangsheng, and Xi
Jinping have relatively prominent public profiles or are party-state officials.
32 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 231, 233-34, 246, 248.
33 SCIO is the public face of the CCP Central Committee’s Office for External Propaganda (OEP; 对外宣传办公室; also known as the Central Office of
Foreign Propaganda and International Communication Office); both were absorbed into the Central Propaganda Department in 2014.
34 Meaning, at least in part, local CCP propaganda departments.
35 Including those for trade, culture, and tourism.
36 Meaning official party-state outlets.
37 The CCP sees these as “playing a major role in changing the way others . . . speak and think about China, its regime, and its policies”. For more
on China’s use of think tanks see Nadège Rolland, Commanding Ideas: Think Tanks as Platforms for Authoritarian Influence, National Endowment for
Democracy, December 2020.
38 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 248; Ohlberg, Creating a Favorable International Public Opinion Environment, 409-11.
39 See Harold, Beauchamp-Mustafaga, and Hornung, Chinese Disinformation Efforts on Social Media, for an in-depth look at PLA propaganda and
psychological warfare strategy.
40 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 229.
41 Hu Xianqing [胡贤清], “Discussion of the Application of Social Media Big Data Analysis to Achieve Precise Delivery” [社交媒体利用大数据分析实现精
准投放应用探讨], Digital Communications World [数字通信世界], 7 (2017): 156.
42 Hu, “How My Country’s External Propaganda Realizes Precise Communication”.
43 50% of articles published in 2014 reference big data and AI, but there were only 4 total articles in that year.
44 Dai Yuanchu [戴元初], “Evaluating and Elevating the Effects of External Communication in the Big Data Era” [大数据时代对外传播效果的评估与提升],
International Communications [对外传播], 10 (2014): 38-40.
45 Xu Qingchu [余清楚], “News Websites Need to Walk the Forefront of the New Media Era — People’s Daily Online Works Toward a Live-Stream
Year, Video Year, and Converged Media Development Year” [新闻网站需走在新媒体时代前列——人民网发力直播年、视频年、融媒体发展年], New Media [
网络传播], 7 (2017): 26-29.
46 For more discussion of the role that the CCP and researchers envision for AI in the future of propaganda, see this article by Devin Thorne in
Jamestown Foundation’s China Brief.
47 Specifically, CFLPA was under the management of the CCP Central Committee’s Office for External Propaganda and its predecessor starting
in 1991. Since the Central Propaganda Department absorbed the OEP in 2014, CFLPA now very likely falls under Central Propaganda Department
management as well. CFLPA is also known as China International Publishing Group (CIPG; 中国国际出版集团).
48 The survey results or discussion of them can be found here: 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017-2016 (these years were combined), 2015, 2014, and
2013.
49 Kantar Group acquired Millward Brown in 2016, after it had participated in the 2013, 2014, and 2015 ACCWS surveys. Lightspeed Research is a
Kantar Group subsidiary going back to 2000. Kantar Group has more recently participated in ACCWS surveys under its own logo without reference to
Millward Brown or Lightspeed (see the 2019 survey, for example).
50 Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan, Russia, Italy, Serbia, Kenya, Egypt, and Peru.
51 CNC is Xinhua News Agency’s international English- and Chinese-language television news broadcaster created as part of the “2009-2020 Overall
Plan for Building My Country’s Key Media International Communication Capabilities”.
52 Source held by Recorded Future.
53 Source held by Recorded Future.
54 CMG, also known as Voice of China (中国之声), was formed in 2018 through organization of CCTV, CRI, and China National Radio (中国人民广
播电台). It is a work unit (事业单位) directly under the State Council and is led by the CCP Central Propaganda Department. China Global Television
Network, originally launched by CCTV, is also part of CMG.
55 Source held by Recorded Future.
56 Albania, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Belarus, Bulgaria, Poland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Russia, France, Belgium, Philippines,
South Korea, Nigeria, Cambodia, Czech Republic, Croatia, Laos, Romania, Malaysia, Mongolia, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, Portugal, Brazil,
Afghanistan, Japan, Serbia, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, India, Thailand, Turkey, Cyprus, Pakistan, Ukraine, Spain, Argentina, Mexico, Israel, Greece, Hungary,
Italy, Indonesia, United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, South Africa, and Vietnam.
57 After the initial tender was released asking for surveys in all 52 countries, a second tender for the same project was issued with a revision that
indicated bidders could propose only conducting surveys in a portion of the 52 countries. Global Times 4-D’s specific proposal was not made public.
58 Source held by Recorded Future.
59 In order, these are 北京大学社会学系, 复旦大学新闻学院, 中国社会科学院社会学研究所, 北京外国语大学国际新闻与传播学院, 哔哩哔哩公共政策研究院,
and 北京圣陶教育发展与创新研究院.
60 This scandal has also been studied in detail as part of state-funded research on AI and journalism theory.
61 Xinhua’s English-language website.
62 Lai Feng [赖风] and Zheng Xin [郑欣], “A Method for Achieving Artificial Intelligence and Precise International Communication” [人工智能算法与精准
国际传播的实现路径], Yuejiang Academic Journal [阅江学刊] (November 2021).
63 “Chapter 10: External Propaganda Work”, 228-29.
64 CICC, also known as China Intercontinental Press (五洲传播出版), was created in 1993 under (隶属) the SCIO. As stated in an earlier note,
SCIO is the public face of the CCP Central Committee’s Office for External Propaganda. OEP/SCIO were absorbed into the CCP Central Propaganda
Department in 2014; therefore, since 2014, CICC has been under the Central Propaganda Department. CICC’s corporate registration used to show
this affiliation, but has since been updated to reflect oversight (主管部门 [出资人]) by the Ministry of Finance. This change almost certainly does not
www.recordedfuture.com | Recorded Future [®] TA-CN-2022-0928 26
THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
indicate an end to CICC’s close relationship with the propaganda apparatus given its stated mission to: “introduce the world to Chinese history, politics,
economics, science and technology, culture, and people’s lives, [as well as] fully display China’s national image of civilization, democracy, openness,
and advancement”.
65 Sanya is a city in Hainan.
66 Source held by Recorded Future.
67 Source held by Recorded Future.
68 Source held by Recorded Future.
69 See the “2017 Facebook Travel Industry Overseas Marketing Handbook” (2017 Facebook旅游行业海外营销手册) published by Facebook.
70 Brady, Marketing Dictatorship, 12.
71 Sources held by Recorded Future.
72 Source held by Recorded Future.
73 Literally, “personal intellectual property”.
74 Mao Wei [毛伟] and Fang Mingxuan [方明轩], “Xu Zeyu Studio: Using Personal IP to Innovate External Public Opinion Struggle” [徐泽宇工作室：用个
人IP创新对外舆论斗争], Chinese Journalist [中国记者], 7 (2021): 67-69.
75 Ibid.
76 Ibid.
77 Miburo is a US-based consulting firm.
78 These are discussed together in the source article.
79 This newsletter often publishes translations and analyses of events and policies in China as well as occasional correctives to claims in mainstream
foreign reporting related to China.
80 Cheng Zheng [程征], “Wang Zichen Studio: An ‘International Communicator’ Adhering to Professional Ability and a Constructive Attitude” [王子辰工
作室：秉持专业能力和建设性态度的“国际沟通者”], Chinese Journalist [中国记者], 7 (2021): 63-66.
81 Zhang Yan [张燕], “Analysis of the New Path of United Front Work for Chinese Culture International Communication in the New Era from
the Perspective of the Communication Power of Overseas Books” [海外图书传播力视角下新时代中华文化国际传播的统战工作新路径探析], Science
Communication [科技传播], 5 (2021): 59-61.
82 Repnikova, Chinese Soft Power, 29.
83 International Communications was established in 1994 and is guided (指导) by the CCP Central Committee’s Office for External Propaganda (中央
对外宣传办公室; absorbed into the Central Propaganda Department in 2014); managed (主管) by the China Foreign Languages Publishing Administration
(CFLPA; 中国外文出版发行事业局), a Central Committee work unit (事业单位) under the Central Propaganda Department; and sponsored (主办) and
published by the Academy of Contemporary China and World Studies (ACCWS; 当代中国与世界研究院), a think tank subordinate to the CFLPA.
84 Although “key opinion leader” is a common term in international and internet communications research today, “opinion leaders” has been used
for research in the context of international communication for much longer. For this reason, “opinion leaders”, which should include references to “key
opinion leaders”, was used to collect data for the graphs presented in this report.
27 TA-CN-2022-0928 Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com