Exposed systems: Online and offline
Historically most industrial control systems (ICS) and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems
were in separated networks not connected to the Internet or any other network. Unfortunately this security
through segregation approach does not fully protect against cyberattacks. In reality, networks are rarely
completely isolated. Often some configuration updates are periodically installed or log files are transferred. If
systems are not directly connected, the method of choice for these types of interactions is usually through a USB
stick or a non-permanent modem connection, which provides a way into the restricted networks. This allows
malware to spread into such isolated networks as demonstrated many times by threats such as Stuxnet.
If networks are truly segregated, this would mean that there would be no software updates installed, leaving
old vulnerabilities open. There are also issues around processes. For example, the revocation lists for digital
certificates are seldom updated and therefore certificates which are no longer valid cannot be checked properly
and would still be accepted.
With the increasing desire for connectivity now reaching industrial plants, many operators have started to
connect their ICS to the Internet. New adapters can bridge to older technology which was never intended to be
controlled over the Internet, allowing it to be connected easily. This allows for efficient centralized monitoring
and, to some extent, remote control of equipment.
Depending on the type of machinery controlled through the human-machine interface (HMI) of the ICS, not all
modifications are possible. Some systems are physically connected in a pure read-only mode for monitoring.
And even if they are fully connected, some turbines have physical limitations or emergency systems based on
physical effects that cannot be overridden by the digital controller. Thus, not all Hollywood scenarios of open
flood gates or turbines that fly through the air are possible. However, sabotage attacks that damage equipment
are definitely possible, as has already been demonstrated. In the future, more systems are going to implement
the failsafe switches in software, opening up the vector for malware attacks.
An additional source of concern is that some countries have started to open the energy market for smaller
private contributors. This means that almost anyone can use mini power plants like water, wind or photovoltaic
sites to feed energy back into the power grid. Often these operators do not have a full IT staff supporting
the facilities at hand, which might lead to more vulnerable installations. Furthermore they may deploy new
technology which might be untested and contain some unknown vulnerabilities. While these smaller sites make
up only a small portion of the grid, new decentralized power input feeds are a challenge for the balance of the
power grid as well and need to be carefully monitored. Small outages or changes can have a domino effect for
the whole power grid.
To increase the exposure of energy firms even further, sites like SHODAN, which is essentially a search engine
for devices, enable anyone to easily find exposed controllers on the Internet. Of course not all of the industrial
control systems connected to the Internet are critical systems or even real ones. Some researchers have started
to create honey pot systems in order to study the attackers, which have apparently already attracted attackers
like the Comment Crew/APT1 group, who have broken into these decoy systems.
Page 7
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector