Monitoring
Timer 3: PIK handler – Webmail, social network and IM screen capture
Interval: 60 seconds.
Timer 3 creates a "begirnagir.htp" file.
It then checks whether the user has been surfing or using the following applications and takes a screen
capture if found:
gmail, hotmail, yahoo! mail, google+, msn messenger, blogger, massenger (?), profile,icq, paltalk, yahoo!
messenger for the web, skype, facebook.
The screen captures are saved as a JPG using the following name convention: mm-dd-yyyy-hhnnss. The
"Now" and "FormateDateTime" functions are used.
Timer 13: DESK handler – Screen capture
Interval: 3 minutes
Note: The GUI used to control the bot says 2 minutes, but the code doesn't lie.
Timer 13 takes screen captures every 3 minutes. They are saved using the following name convention:
mm-dd-yyyy-hhnnss. The "Now" and "FormateDateTime" functions are used.
The files are in JPG format.
Timer 14: SOUND handler – Recording sound
This timer is responsible for starting the audio recording using the mci* functions from winmm.dll.
The following commands are used: "OPEN NEW TYPE WAVEAUDIO ALIAS mysound", "SET mysound
TIME FORMAT MS BITSPERSAMPLE 8 CHANNELS 1 SAMPLESPERSEC 8000 BYTESPERSEC 8000"
and finally "RECORD mysound". Once the commands are sent, Timer 30 is enabled, and Timer 14 returns.
Timer 30: Started by Timer 14 (sound command handler)
Interval: 60 seconds
This timer does anything apart from start Timer 31 when it is time to save the recoded audio.
Timer 31: Started by Timer 30 (when it is time to save audio recordings)
When sufficient time has passed since the start of audio recording, Timer 31 disables Timer 30, stops the
recording by sending the following command: "STOP mysound".
To save audio files, it sends the "SAVE mysound" command. The files are saved using the following name
convention: mm-dd-yyyy-hhnnss. The "Now" and "FormateDateTime" functions are used.
The final file is saved as .wav.BMH.
Timer 31 is then disabled, and Timer 14 (Sound handler) is re-nabled for the next audio recording.
Timer 32: Set up keylogger
Interval: 60 seconds
Even though the keylogger setup is performed when the application starts, in the FormCreate routine
Timer 32 sets up the keylogger every 60 seconds. The details of the keylogger have already been described
earlier in this document.
Timer 2: Creation of keylogger logs
Interval: 10 seconds
Timer 2 starts by getting the current user name (GetUserName API Function), and then checks if the
"poki65.pik" file is present. This file is the current ongoing keylogging file. If it's not present, it looks for
"solt.html", which indicates whether the keylogger has created its first log yet.
If none of those files are present, it means it is the first time the keylogger has started logging.
The first log file is different from subsequent log files, as it contains more information. The Madi keylogger
files use HTML tags and colors to make them easier to read.
For the first log, it executes "cmd.exe /c ipconfig /allcompartments > ipconfig.txt"
It waits 5 seconds and appends the content of "ipconfig.txt" to the HTML content that is created.
The computer name as well as the current user name is appended to the log, followed by the list of
available drives: Floppy Drive, Fixed Drive, Network Drive, CD-Rom Drive and RAM Disk.
Finally, a full list of installed software, including security patches, is appended to the log file, as can be
seen on the screenshot below:
Once this part is completed, it creates a file called "solt.htm" containing the word "wertik".
It will continue formatting the poki65 log file. At the very beginning you can see the "Content-Language"
set to "fa", which is Persian.
This is how the keylogger logs are generated.
Timer 4: Insert time stamps and tags to display screen captures into keylogger logs.
Interval: 1 millisecond
Timer 4 is responsible for inserting IMG tags inside the keylogger log. It is also responsible for adding the
time stamp taken from the C&C server (see Miscellaneous section, Timer 7 and 8).
Timer 6: Backup keylogger log for exfiltration
Timer 6 searches for the poki65.pik file - the current log session. If not found, it returns.
It then looks for the size of the log file. If it is lower than 15 KB, it will return. Only log files bigger than 15
KB are exfiltrated. If the size criteria is met, they are copied using the following name convention: mm-dd
yyyy-hhnnss.HTM. Timer 6 then deletes "poki65.pik" and returns.
Note: A new log will be created by Timer 2 (solt.html tells the keylogger not to list drives, installed
software etc. again).