Victimology
21
Trend Micro | Operation Black Atlas: How Modular Botnets are Used in Attacks
As mentioned, a big part of Operation Black Atlas started off by scanning an IP range, knocking on the doors to see
which ports are open, and attempting to brute-force their way through remote desktop protocols. By identifying the
environments that fall victim to this methodology, we found that a good majority were small-to-medium businesses
(SMBs) that have opened these ports intentionally. Given the nature of the business, we can assume that the opened
ports were most likely for outsourced IT services or so that their in-house IT admins (if they exist) can get back in the
network from remote locations.
SMBs have different challenges as they need to figure out how technology solutions can help grow their business, try
to balance IT spending costs for upgrades or maintenance, or even just keep the business running. With this, it comes
with no surprise that there may be some quick fixes or misconfigurations here and there that may have lesser chance
of happening in a larger environment with a dedicated IT staff.
Certainly, there are regional peculiarities that we have observed. For example, there was a minor hit in Switzerland for
a PwnPOS sample that they tried to plant on a terminal that was using PaniPOS Terminal. The software, PaniPOS
Terminal, was created by a local Swiss company called Panipro AG. Therefore, we know that the threat actors would
not go seeking for the same kind of terminal in, say, Latin America. That being said, Operation Black Atlas had a wide
variety of PoS threats to choose from and, for the purpose of focusing on a specific region in this write-up, we would
be mentioning some observed data but most of the material would cover what we have observed within the United
States.
The two PoS threats that may have the most significant impact would be NewPOSThings and Gorynych. The
distribution of NewPOSThings concentrated within the United States, some in Europe and finally a few hits in Asia.
While we were able to see infections in Asia (Australia, India, Taiwan), Europe (Germany, United Kingdom) and Latin
America (Chile) for Gorynych, infections within the United States looked quite interesting as there is a high possibility
22
Trend Micro | Operation Black Atlas: How Modular Botnets are Used in Attacks
of finding both Gorynych and NewPOSThings. We then looked into some of the affected establishments of Operation
Black Atlas where we have spotted both indicators of Gorynych and NewPOSThings:


A multi-state healthcare provider and two dental clinics


A machine manufacturer


A technology company focusing on insurance services


A gas station that has a multi-state presence


A beauty supply shop


Not so much can be said for finding both Gorynych and NewPOSThings in a gas station or a beauty supply shop, but
finding a bot that had information-stealing capability in the industries of insurance, manufacturing, and healthcare
certainly can raise alarm. For example, any individual who walks into a dental clinic or ask services from a healthcare
provider would be required to present proof of identification, fill out forms that may contain sensitive information like
an individual’s Social Security number (SSN) or driver’s license ID number, and even present proof of insurance. If
paper forms were initially used by patients to fill in their information, then there would be manual data input to the
back-end healthcare system. All of these data that require keystrokes can be easily monitored by Gorynych’s
keylogger functionality.
Finally, and though we have not seen this in action, the Bitcoin wallet information theft functionality presents
something as a forward looking feature. As early as later 2013 and early 2014, there have been healthcare providers
who have supported payment through bitcoins to maintain significant anonymity protections for patients. Being able
to tap into that anonymous financial stream would be quite lucrative for cybercriminals.