EVOLUTION
of state-sponsored threat groups
GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE OF ATTACKS AND NEW GROUPS
attacks originating from developed
countries. This again confirms that
well-orchestrated attacks are difficult
to detect or attribute to a specific group
5. ATTACKS ON RUSSIA AND THE
FORMER SOVIET UNION
USA: Equation Group
Pakistan: Gorgon Group
Iran: MuddyWater
North Korea: APT37, Lazarus
Russia: Gamaredon Group, Buthtrap,
APT28
China: Winnti
Unknown: HEXANE, Whitefly

new groups

During the reporting period, researchers
analyzed attacks carried out by 38 groups
and affecting the entire world. Security
specialists mainly focused on groups
1. ATTACKS ON AMERICA
Russia: APT28, Turla, APT29,
Xenotime
Pakistan: Gorgon Group
Iran: APT33, Charming Kitten
North Korea: Kimsuky,
Lazarus, STOLEN PENCIL
China: TEMP.Periscope
South America: APT-C-36*
2. ATTACKS ON EUROPE
Russia: APT28, Turla,
Gamaredon Group, APT29
Pakistan: Gorgon Group
Iran: APT33, MuddyWater
North Korea: DarkHotel, Lazarus
China: TEMP.Periscope, LEAD, APT10
Vietnam: OceanLotus
Unknown: PowerPool,
Inception, Gallmaker*
China, Vietnam, Iran, USA, UAE, India,
Turkey, and South America.
It is important to note that there
3. ATTACKS ON APAC
North Korea: APT37, Kimsuky,
Lazarus, DarkHotel
India: Sidewinder, BITTER
Iran: Chafer, OilRig
China: APT10, Winnti, APT40
Russia: APT29, Turla, Xenotime
Vietnam: OceanLotus
Unknown: APT-C-35,
BlueMushroom, Whitefly,
Unidentified group, TajMahal framework
4. ATTACKS ON MIDDLE
EAST AND AFRICA
USA: Equation Group
Pakistan: Gorgon Group
Iran: OilRig
North Korea: APT37, Lazarus
China: Winnti
Russia: Gamaredon Group,
Buthrap, APT28
Unknown: PowerPool, Whitefly,
HEXANE, Windshift, Gallmaker
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 21
Throughout the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2019, security experts identified numerous previously unknown statesponsored groups. Many have been conducting operations for several years and have gone unnoticed for a long time. Some groups
attack similar targets, which leads to competition between them and means that their actions are detected quicker.
Windshift
Blue Mushroom
(aka Sapphire Mushroom,
APT-C-12)
Gallmaker
Geographical scope Initial infection
The Middle East
Geographical scope
Geographical scope
The Middle East
Eastern Europe
Tools
Spear phishing
Trusted relationship (social
engineering)
Spear phishing
Drive-by compromise
Tools
WindTail
WindTape
The cyberespionage group WindShift has been flying under the radar for many years thanks to its
distinctive feature—thorough attack preparation.
The attackers created fake user pages on social media (LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,
and Google Plus) and sent friendly messages to potential victims. The interactions lasted from
six months to a year, during which the attackers tricked their victims into divulging valuable
information.
The group mainly targets employees of government agencies and critical infrastructure facilities
in the Middle East. Victims' macOS systems were attacked using crafted malicious programs: OSX.
WindTail.A, OSX.WindTail.B, and OSX.WindTape.
Geographical scope Initial infection
China Spear phishing
SinaAppEngine
ps_backdoor
Geographical scope
Tools
Spear phishing
The group Blue Mushroom (aka Sapphire Mushroom, APT-C-12) has been operating since 2011
but only became known in mid-2018.
Its attacks involve cloud infrastructure. For example, the group uses Amazon S3 and cloud server
communication protocols to exfiltrate confidential user information.
The attackers also use the Digital Ocean cloud service as C&C and the SinaAppEngine (SAE)
service to create their own C&C infrastructure.
Initial infection
Metasploit
Gallmaker has been operating since at least December 2017 but was only discovered in 2018.
To compromise systems, attackers exploit the Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) feature in Word
applications. The DDE protocol is used to exchange information between Office programs that
use shared data or a shared memory.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 22
Imminent Monitor RAT
Tools
Spear phishing
APT-C-36
(aka Blind Eagle)
Whitefly
HEXANE
(aka LYCEUM)
Unidentified
group
Geographical scope Initial infection
Colombia Spear phishing
Geographical scope
APT-C-36 (aka Blind Eagle) is a threat actor originating from South America that became known
in late 2018. Its goal is to steal trade secrets from major companies and government agencies; its
main infection vector is malicious emails. To hide the sender’s IP address, the threat actor uses
proxy and VPN services.
Geographical scope
Singapore
Southeast Asia
Russia
Initial infection
Mimikatz
Trojan.Vcrodat
Termite
Nibatad
Tools
Spear phishing
Security specialists first detected Whitefly in 2018 after an attack on Singapore’s largest public
health organization, SingHealth, which resulted in a reported 1.5 million patient records being
stolen.
The group has gone unnoticed since 2017. They mainly target companies based in Singapore.
Geographical scope Initial infection
The Middle East Supply chain attack
Geographical scope
Supply chain attack
Spear phishing
Password spraying
Tools
DanBot
PoshC2
PowerShell Empire
HEXANE is a new group targeting the industrial sector. Its members have been active since mid2018, focusing on the Middle East, Central Asia, and Africa.
Geographical scope Initial infection
Central Asia —
TajMahal
Geographical scope
Tools
—
In the fall of 2018, reports revealed a newly discovered sophisticated APT framework, TajMahal.
It has been used for at least 5 years, but it remains unclear to which group the tool belongs.
The framework consists of two packages named Tokyo and Yokohama and contains around
80 malicious modules. The tool is designed to conduct cyberespionage campaigns, but the list
of confirmed victims only contains one: a diplomatic entity from a country in Central Asia.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 23
SUPPLY CHAIN ATTACKS
Last year’s Group-IB Hi-Tech Crime
Trends report identified BIOS/UEFI
attacks as one of the most prominent
trends. Experts predicted that the
main targets would likely be firmware
and motherboard developers based
mainly in the APAC region, where
large companies have their production
facilities.
Winnti attacks on hardware
manufacturers and game
developers
A few months after Group-IB's report was
released, its prediction was confirmed
by news about a malware campaign
called Operation ShadowHammer. [[1]]
To deliver malware, attackers leveraged
the legitimate utility ASUS Live
Update, which automatically updates
components such as BIOS, UEFI, drivers,
and applications.
The trojanized utility was signed with
the legitimate certificate “ASUSTeK
Computer Inc.” and was hosted on the
official ASUS server.
Similar malware delivery techniques
were used to infect software belonging
to three other manufacturers, whose
names were not disclosed. The attacks,
conducted for espionage purposes, are
linked to the Chinese group Winnti.
[1] https://securelist.com/operation-shadowhammer/89992/
In addition to equipment manufacturers,
the same group successfully attacked
the gaming industry. In total, two games
and one gaming platform were infected.
One of the affected gaming companies
is located in Thailand.
Plead (aka BlackTech) campaigns:
Focus on Taiwan
In July 2018, cybersecurity experts
discovered a new malware campaign
involving the Plead backdoor, which
was digitally signed using a valid D-Link
Corporation code-signing certificate.
At the end of April 2019, the experts
identified multiple attempts to deploy
the same malware in an unusual way.
The Plead backdoor was created and
executed by a legitimate process named
AsusWSPanel.exe. The executable file
was digitally signed by ASUS Cloud
Corporation. Plead malware has always
been most widely deployed in Taiwan.
Unsuccessful attack on vendors
of software for developers
In 2019, an attack on an international
vendor of development tools for various
programming languages was discovered.
The attackers compromised the
company's infrastructure and accessed
the Docker containers used to build
the software, after which they were
discovered. Allegedly, they planned
to inject malicious code into legitimate
programs at the assembly stage.
Chinese group attacks through
Hewlett Packard (HP) and IBM
In December 2018, Chinese attackers
reportedly infiltrated the networks
of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE)
and IBM as part of the Cloudhopper
campaign. By gaining access to the
networks, they were subsequently able
to hack into computers belonging to HPE
and IBM clients.
Cloudhopper compromised client
data in 12 countries, including Brazil,
Germany, India, Japan, the United Arab
Emirates, Great Britain, and the United
States. The clients were from industries
such as finance, electronics, medical
equipment, biotechnology, automotive,
mining, and oil and gas.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 24
HACKING BACK
“Hacking back” is a controversial method
that helps victims of cyberattacks take
a more proactive approach to deterring
cyberthreats. The question of whether
private companies can legally conduct
such operations has been discussed for
years. Today, hacking back is allowed only
in the case of national security services.
In 2019, there were more instances when
information about tools used by attackers
was made public as part of retaliatory
attacks.
In March 2019, the Telegram channel
Lab Dookhtegan posted tool source
codes used by the Iranian group OilRig
(APT34) and data about its members.
The information included the identities
of hacked victims as well as the
names, surnames, and social media
profiles of supposedly active group
members, including leaders. A user
with the nickname "Lab Dookhtegan"
claims to be a former member
of OilRig and to have worked on the
group's DNSpionage campaign.
The published hacking tools include:


Glimpse (a new version of a PowerShell
Trojan, which Palo Alto Networks
named BondUpdater);


PoisonFrog (an old version
of BondUpdater);


HyperShell (a web shell that Palo
Alto Networks called TwoFace);


HighShell (another web shell);


Fox Panel (a phishing kit);


Webmask (the main tool involved
in the DNSpionage campaign).


Published data about 66 victims was
collected in some of APT34's backend
command-and-control (C&C) servers
and contained credentials from internal
servers and user IP addresses. This victim
list mainly includes companies and
organizations in the Middle East, Africa,
East Asia, and Europe.
Lab Dookhtegan also leaked data
about past APT34 operations, listing
IP addresses and domains where the
group had hosted web shells and other
operational data. As of April 18, 2019,
researchers were aware of 125 web shells.
In June, researchers reported an attack
on a Middle East organization conducted
by the group Turla in January 2018.
Threat actors used OilRig (Iran)
infrastructure to download a customized
[1] https://content.fireeye.com/apt-41/rpt-apt41
variant of Mimikatz—which is unique
to Turla (Russia)—to the victim’s device.
As occurred in the OilRig (APT34)
case, a Telegram channel was used
to leak data about another Iran-nexus
group, MuddyWater. The data leaked
included information about the source
code of a tool written in Python and its
C&C servers.
This tool is designed to generate
a payload embedded in a macro.
Once the macro is executed, the
victim's computer connects to the
C&C server and downloads additional
modules. This tool also delivers a second
stage payload, e.g. .sct, .hta, and
PowerShell.
In June 2018, the United States imposed
sanctions against the Russian research
institute Quantum, a contractor for
FSB, the Russian intelligence service.
In December 2018, the group Digital
Revolution published data stolen from
Quantum. In July 2019, hackers breached
SyTech, another FSB contractor, and
shared the exfiltrated data about
the company’s internal projects and
screenshots of SyTech's servers with
Digital Revolution. The latter released
this information online.
In August 2018, the group Intrusion Truth
revealed the identities of individuals
it claimed were members of the Chinese
hacking group APT10. In July 2019, the
same group shared details of individuals
thought to be members of the Chinabacked group APT17.
In August 2019, FireEye released an indepth report about the APT41 group
during the BlackHat conference. APT41
seems to have several ties with APT17,
which is why experts believe that these
threat actors are in fact the same group
(called Winnti or BARIUM).
CODE FAMILY OVERLAP AMONG DIFFERENT CHINESE ESPIONAGE GROUPS [[1]]
Malware APT1 APT3 APT10 APT17 APT18 APT19 APT40 APT41
BLACKCOFFEE
CHINACHOP
COLDJAVA
HIGHNOON
HIGHNOON.BIN
HIGHNOON.LITE
HOMEUNIX
JUMPALL
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 25