BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets Government Officials
secureworks.com /blog/bronze-president-targets-government-officials
The likely Chinese government-sponsored threat group uses decoy documents and PlugX
malware to compromise targets. Thursday, September 8, 2022 By: Counter Threat Unit
Research Team
In June and July 2022, Secureworks® Counter Threat Unit™ (CTU) researchers identified a
PlugX malware campaign targeting computers belonging to government officials of several
countries in Europe, the Middle East, and South America. PlugX is modular malware that
contacts a command and control (C2) server for tasking and can download additional plugins
to enhance its capability beyond basic information gathering. Several characteristics of this
campaign indicate that it was conducted by the likely Chinese government-sponsored
BRONZE PRESIDENT threat group, including the use of PlugX, file paths and naming
schemes previously used by the threat group, the presence of shellcode in executable file
headers, and politically-themed decoy documents that align with regions where China has
interests.
The malware is embedded within RAR archive files. Opening the archive on a Windows
computer with default settings displays a Windows shortcut (LNK) file (see Figure 1) that
masquerades as a document.
Figure 1. Content of RAR archive file. (Source: Secureworks)
Alongside the shortcut is a hidden folder that contains the malware, embedded eight levels
deep in a sequence of hidden folders named with special characters (see Figure 2). This
tiering is likely to bypass mail-scanning products that may not traverse the entire path when
scanning content, suggesting that the delivery mechanism was phishing emails, as there is no
other benefit to creating such a folder structure.
https://www.secureworks.com/blog/bronze-president-targets-government-officials 1/15
12/7/22, 9:27 AM BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets Government Officials | Secureworks
Figure 2. Malicious files contained within hidden folder. (Source: Secureworks)
To execute the malware, the recipient must click the Windows shortcut file. The shortcut
executes a renamed legitimate file contained in the eighth hidden folder. Alongside the
legitimate file is a malicious DLL and an encrypted payload file. CTU™ researchers observed
the malicious payload using the folder names and filenames in Table 1.
Encrypted
PlugX payload
Shortcut file
HU proposals to the draft
EUCO
conclusions.pdf.lnk
Embassy of the Republic
of Suriname 2022-N033.pdf.lnk
Predlog termina zvanicne
posjete zamjenice
predsjedavajuceg Vijeca
ministara i ministarke
vanjskih poslova
BiH.pdf.lnk
EL Non-Paper Pandemic
Resilience final.docx.lnk
313615_MONTENEGRO2021-HUMAN-RIGHTSREPORT.pdf.lnk
EU 31st session of the
Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal
Justice United Nations on
Drugs and Crime.pdf.lnk
Hidden
folder Legitimate binary Malicious DLL
` Opera.exe (renamed
test.tmp)
` Opera.exe (renamed
mail.tmp)