Butterfly attacks against tech firms
On February 1, 2013, Twitter published a blog, stating that it had “discovered one live attack” and added that
it was “able to shut it down in process moments later.” Twitter encouraged users “to disable Java” in their
browsers. “The attackers were extremely sophisticated, and we believe other companies and organizations have
also been recently similarly attacked,” said Twitter.
Fourteen days later, on February 15, Facebook issued a statement, disclosing that several of its systems
“had been targeted in a sophisticated attack.” Facebook said that the attackers used “a ‘zero-day’ (previously
unseen) exploit to bypass the Java sandbox,” which had been hosted on a “mobile developer website that was
compromised.”
Reuters referenced a similar statement from Apple a few days later on February 19. According to Apple,
attackers used a Java zero-day exploit to compromise a number of Apple employees’ Mac OS X computers. Apple
said that the exploit was delivered through a “site aimed at iPhone developers.”
Finally, Microsoft published a statement on February 22, stating that it too had “experienced a similar security
intrusion” as the ones reported by Facebook and Apple.
The attacks against these technology firms appeared to take place between 2012 and early 2013. The zero-day
exploit referred to in the various statements took advantage of the Oracle Java Runtime Environment Multiple
Remote Code Execution Vulnerabilities (CVE-2013-0422). The vulnerability had been patched by Oracle on
January 13, 2013, after the attacks occurred. Various parties published details of the attack vector, as well as
the malware used in the attacks, several days later.
F-Secure blogged that a Mac OS X back door (detected by Symantec as OSX.Pintsized) was the attack’s payload.
According to the website StopMalvertising, the compromised website that hosted the exploit was an iPhone
developer website called iPhoneDevSDK.com.
Independent researcher Eric Romang published some technical details about the attacks and established a
timeline suggesting that the attackers have been active from September 2012. Symantec telemetry indicates
that the timeline goes back even further than this, with malicious activity starting from at least April 2012.
Romang analyzed many of the OSX.Pintsized samples and also identified a Windows back door, which he claimed
was related to the attacks. This Windows file is a variant of what Symantec detects as Backdoor.Jiripbot. Other
vendors called the variant Jripbot.
Since Romang’s analysis, there has been little-to-no public information related to the attackers behind the Java
zero-day exploit or the use of OSX.Pintsized and Backdoor.Jiripbot.
Page 6
Butterfly: Corporate spies out for financial gain