2 Executive Summary
2.1 Overview
The Executive Summary section of this report is provided to draw a non-technical
executive outline of the SilverFish group, which was found to have carried out an
extremely sophisticated cyber-attack on at least 4720 targets, including but not limited to
governmental institutions, global IT providers, the aviation industry, and defense companies.
Detected to have multiple relations with the notorious SolarWinds incident of the past
quarter and the globally recognized EvilCorp group, we believe this case to be an important
cornerstone in terms of understanding capabilities of organized threat actors. Please note
that, all the matters mentioned herein will be explained in further technical detail in the later
sections of this report.
This report includes various discoveries related to an extremely well-organized
cyber-espionage group which are thought to have strong ties with notorious Solarwinds,
EvilCorp that compromised several states and critical infrastructures. We believe; our findings
will reveal several previously-unknown tools, techniques and procedures related to one of
the most high-profile APT groups in history.
Figure 1. Victim distribution by country
7 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
2.2 The PTI Team’s Investigation
Following the infamous SolarWinds attack that peaked on December 2020, the PTI Team
has started working on multiple initial leads from public resources related to the disclosed
attack [8], [19].
After detecting an online domain (databasegalore[.]com) from previously published IOCs, it
was possible for the PTI Team to further analyze the incident and find yet-to-be-discovered
C&C servers by means of large-scale network scans.
This enabled the PTI Team to access the management infrastructure (i.e., the C&C server) of
the SilverFish group and to acquire further information about the group’s modus operandi
including but not limited to IPs and usernames of the victims, commands executed on the
victims’ machines, activity time of the SilverFish group, comments written for each victim,
and prioritization of operations.
2.3 Characteristics of the SilverFish Group
Formed by Multiple Teams : When taking its first look inside the C&C server, the PTI Team
observed that main dashboard of the SilverFish C&C panel features a section named ”Active
Teams”, involving several comments entered by different user groups such as Team 301, Team
302, etc. Such a design indicates that this infrastructure is meant for multiple teams. Most
comments entered by attackers for each victim are mostly in English and Russian and include
urban slang.
8 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
Advanced Post Exploitation Skillset : Executed commands and specially crafted scripts used
by the SilverFish group strongly indicates sophistication and an advanced post-exploitation
skillset. There are multiple attempts for pivoting to internal systems on critical infrastructure
after the initial domain enumeration of victims.
Exclusively Targeting Critical Infrastructures in the US and EU : Following a detailed inspection
on the C&C panel, PTI Team has seen that the SilverFish group has exclusively targeted
critical infrastructures. Nearly all critical infrastructures (as defined in the NIST Cyber Security
Framework [14]) have been successfully compromised. Approximately half of the victims were
witnessed to be corporations which have a market value of more than 100 million USD, as
per their public financial statements.
While the United States is by far the most frequently targeted region, with 2465 attacks
recorded, it is followed by European states with 1645 victims originating from no less than 6
different member states.
Focus on Recon and Covert Data Exfiltration : Upon analyzing the custom scripts and tools
created by the SilverFish group, the PTI Team came to the conclusion that the main goal
of this APT group is most likely to perform reconnaissance and exfiltrate data from target
machines in a covert manner.
Using Enterprise Victims as a Real-Life Sandbox : The PTI Team has observed that the
SilverFish group has designed an unprecedented malware detection sandbox formed by
actual enterprise victims, which enables the adversaries to test their malicious payloads on
actual live victim servers with different enterprise AV and EDR solutions, further expanding
the high success rate of the SilverFish group attacks.
Working much like VirusTotal but with actual live victim servers, this platform (which we dub
”VictimTotal” 3.4) of the SilverFish campaign was observed to be including two different
malicious files that had been previously scanned, under the names, ”buildus9_3.ps1” and
”build_eu.ps1” indicating a separate preparation for different regions.
Highly Organized Working Patterns : Another interesting finding was the level of hierarchy
in the C&C server, enabling management of different targets, assignment of these targets
to different groups and triaging incoming victims to appropriate SilverFish group members.
Further information about this detailed structure can be found in Section 3.1.2, titled Team
Hierarchy.
Working in Strict Shifts : As discussed in 4.3, the PTI Team has also gathered data about the
working habits of the SilverFish group. Upon careful inspection it was discovered that the
group has worked according to a specific timeline : namely, between the hours of 8:00 AM
and 8:00 PM (UTC). Additionally, the group was observed to be far more active on weekdays,
Monday through Friday.
Other Possible Campaigns Against Different Regions : As explained throughout the report,
our discoveries involving SilverFish were exclusively related to the US and EU. That said,
there may be other ongoing operations targeting other parts of the world. We base this
assumption on the fact that the SilverFish group is observed to be extremely organized and
capable of enacting the exact same structure for other regions of interest.
9 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group