English-Speaking Actors
English-speaking actors are always particularly fascinating due to their history of
complex tooling and campaigns. Actors like Regin and Project Sauron have proven
fascinating examples of new techniques leveraged in long-lasting, hard to catch
campaigns and as such make ideal subjects for further research. Not to be outdone,
Equation and the Lamberts were the subjects of our most recent investigations.
Continuing our practice of conducting malware paleontology while integrating new
discoveries, we published a report on EQUATIONVECTOR, an Equation backdoor first
used as early as 2006. This backdoor is a fascinating passive-active shellcode staging
implant. It’s one of the earliest noted instances of a NObody But US (‘NOBUS’)
backdoor for staging further attacks. Despite its age, the EQUATIONVECTOR backdoor
(identified as ‘PeddleCheap’ in the latest ShadowBrokers disclosures) incorporates
many advanced techniques for prolonged stealthy operations in victim networks,
allowing the Equation operators to deliver further payloads without arousing
suspicion. The report tracks the development of these tools through subsequent
iterations year-by-year.
3/8
Our tracking of the Lamberts toolkit continues with the publication of the Gray
Lambert report in June, the most advanced Lambert known to date. This too is a
NOBUS backdoor, a passive implant operating strictly in user-land. The intricate
usefulness of Gray Lambert lies in its ability to orchestrate multiple sniffer victims on
a network via broadcast, multicast, and unicast commands, allowing the operators to
employ surgical precision in networks with many infected machines. The sniffers
double as next-stage payload delivery mechanisms for an infected network. A notable
feature of the Lambert campaigns is the level of precision with which targets are
chosen; Gray Lambert’s victimology is primarily focused on strategic verticals in Asia
and Middle East. During this investigation, GReAT researchers have also discovered
two additional Lambert families (Red Lambert and Brown Lambert) currently under
investigation for Q3. Below is a list of report titles for reference:

EQUATIONVECTOR – A Generational Breakdown of the PeddleCheap

Multifunctional Backdoor

The Gray Lambert – A Leap in Sophistication to User-land NOBUS Passive

Implants