Introduction
Malvertising has seen meteoric rise in 2014. Threat actors create a corporate front, advertise on
commonly visited sites, then later switch out the landing pages for their ads to pages that host exploit
kits, or simply create a temporary redirection from their usual content to the malicious landing page.
These exploit kits are hosted on compromised web servers across the world. In other words, they leverage
legitimate ad-supported popular websites together with compromised websites for hosting exploit
landing pages, defeating black-listing techniques. The lifetime of these ads and landing pages are
measured in hours.
In the campaign described here, Operation DeathClick, traditional malvertising has been armed with a
micro-targeting system using IP address ranges, geographically narrowed down to zip codes, and interests
of the user (recorded in cookies) to target specific companies, company types, and user
interests/preferences. They are employing the tactics of real-time ad bidding to guarantee malicious ad
delivery to intended targets of the campaign – building on a decade of work in real-time analytics for
online ad placement, but for nefarious purposes.
The threat actors redirect their ads for just minutes at a time and then abandon their exploit kit pages
forever. This means that list-based threat intelligence feeds are rendered ineffective. The domains used
do not appear in any proxy blacklist, and the malware droppers delivered by the exploit pages always
employ different signatures, evading traditional network and endpoint detection technology.
Ad delivery networks today are not incentivized to address the problem in a credible manner as they
derive revenue from the criminal enterprise, while not being held accountable. Turning a blind eye to the
problem is rewarded economically. Meanwhile the perpetrators are able to use traditional malvertising
and ad fraud bots to fund the criminal enterprise.
Without cooperation of ad networks to vet the advertisers working through front companies, this attack
vector will go unchecked. And now, with the advent of real-time ad bidding, these threat actors have
weaponized ad delivery networks to target victims based on:


User-Agent strings (versions of flash, OS, java and browser)


Interest-related content (click bait articles, industry specific software or hardware, like medical


supplies, radar mapping software, ammunition sales, stocks forums)

Advertising Profiles derived from cookies (someone with specific tastes, may shop for shoes,

handbags, cars, luxury vacations)

Geographic region (malvertisers can target specific neighborhoods or states via geoip direct

advertising)

Specific corporate IP ranges (targeted malvertising can target the public IP space of your network

or an Industrial Vertical)
Invincea, Inc. Release Date: 10.27.2014
Invincea White Paper 4
Real-time ad bidding allows advertisers, and by extension, adversaries, to micro-target ad delivery on an
extremely granular basis. For example, oppressive regimes trying to gather intelligence on activist
protests can deliver ads to people getting email from within a specific locality where they are protesting.
Today, it is commonplace for micro-targeting techniques to be used as part of the toolset in legitimate
online advertising. For instance, a defense contractor, trying to win a new omnibus contract, can deliver
targeted ads to online news sites frequented by Government program personnel. The latest software
product release can be delivered to Windows users visiting PC Magazine’s website. A local car dealership
can sense when someone is in the market for a new car and can deliver advertising to those users, based
solely on browsing history.
Now advanced threat actors are able to target an organization directly via micro-targeted malvertising,
based solely on their corporate network IP range. Thus, it doesn’t matter where in the world you point
your web browser -- an online video poker room, a fantasy football club homepage, a Pakistani news
homepage, or even checking your own webmail at a trusted email provider. Those ad windows can and
are being used to deliver malware if the bidding price is right.