101 payload component
This payload DLL has the filename 101.dll and is named after IEC 101 (aka
IEC 60870-5-101 ), an international standard that describes a protocol for
monitoring and controlling electric power systems. The protocol is used for
communication between industrial control systems and Remote Terminal
Units (RTUs). The actual communication is transmitted through a serial
connection.
The 101 payload component partly implements the protocol described in
the IEC 101 standard and is able to communicate with an RTU or any other
device with support for that protocol.
Once executed, the 101 payload component parses the configuration stored
in its INI file. The configuration may contain several entries: process name,
Win32/Industroyer 6
Windows device names (usually COM ports), the number of Information
Object Address (IOA) ranges, and the beginning and ending IOA values
for the specified number of IOA ranges. IOA is a number that identifies
a particular data element in the device. Figure 6 illustrates a 101 payload
configuration file with two defined IOA ranges, 10-15 and 20-25.
Figure 6. An example of a 101 payload DLL configuration.
The name of the process specified in the configuration belongs to an
application the attackers suspect is running on the victim machine. It
should be the application the victim machine uses to communicate
through serial connection with the RTU. The 101 payload attempts to
terminate the specified process and starts to communicate with the
specified device, using the CreateFile, WriteFile and ReadFile
Windows API functions. The first COM port from the configuration file is
used for the actual communication and the two other COM ports are just
opened to prevent other processes accessing them. Thus, the 101 payload
component is able to take over and maintain control of the RTU device.
This component iterates through all IOAs in the defined IOA ranges.
For each such IOA it constructs two “select and execute” packets, one
with a single command ( C_SC_NA_1 ) and one with a double command
( C_DC_NA_1 ) and sends these to the RTU device. The main goal of the
component is to change the On/Off state of single command type IOA
and double command type IOA. Specifically, the 101 payload has three
stages: in the first stage this component attempts to switch IOAs to their
Off state, in the second stage it attempts to invert IOA states to On, and
in the final stage the component switches IOA states to Off again.
Figure 7. An example of a 101 payload packet, after being dissected in Kaitai Struct WebIDE.
Win32/Industroyer 7