Notable Activity
Hacktivist/Nationalist
Hacktivist- and nationalist-motivated cyber actors are a third class of
adversary tracked by the CrowdStrike Intelligence team. The goals of these
actors may range from causing mischief for laughs to influencing opinions
or views about a particular issue. During the course of 2014, there were a
few notable events that demonstrate the capabilities of these actors. As
electronic voting continues to be used by more and more countries, the
targeting of such processes and equipment will continue to expand.
Operations Targeting Elections
In July 2014, the electronic voter registration system for the then
upcoming Tunisian presidential election suffered a cyber attack, rendering
registrations impossible for an unknown amount of time. Sources reported
that the authorities had control over the attack and that it was a systematic
process, intended to strike the electoral process. This incident is yet another
example of cyber attacks targeting electronic voting systems to
manipulate an outcome.
CyberBerkut
In February 2014, several bloody protests took place in Ukraine resulting
in the ousting of the pro-Russia prime minister, and an interim government
was created with the goal of creating closer ties with the European Union
(EU). Following the protests, CyberBerkut, a self-proclaimed nationalistic
hacking group, began taking credit for hacks against Ukrainian interim
leaders. The group was extremely proactive about distributing propaganda
decrying the new government and recruiting pro-Russia supporters to
engage in participatory Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks against
a multitude of Ukrainian government and media sites. These attacks were
likely directed by Russian state services, with the CyberBerkut hacktivists
providing a layer of plausible deniability.
Several of the DDoS attacks against Ukraine’s Central Election Commission
(CEC) coincided with Russian state media broadcasts, further suggesting
coordination at the state level. In one case, an attack on the CEC occurred
around the time the election results were supposed to appear, while a
simultaneous broadcast on Russian state media appeared to show false
25