Conclusion
Simple targeted attacks are quite common. Most (the Taidoor attackers for example) reuse exploits and are
relatively simple to block, if one ensures that one’s network and software is regularly patched. Somewhat more
sophisticated attackers use zero-day exploits. The Elderwood hackers use multiple zero-day exploits, multiple
Trojans, and multiple delivery vectors. They are responsible for compromising numerous websites, corporations,
and individuals over the past three years. This group is focused on wholesale theft of intellectual property and
clearly has the resources, in terms of manpower, funding, and technical skills, required to implement this task.
Although we have not conclusively established a connection between the most recent exploits and those used
in attacks in 2011, there are similarities. Apart from the technical features in common, as mentioned previously
(URL encoding), there is a noticeable similarity in the timing of the attacks and the types of vulnerabilities used
between the 2012 and 2011 attacks. Both sets of attacks used multiple zero-day exploits one after the other,
sometime around April to August, and both sets of attacks exploit Adobe Flash and Internet Explorer.
It may be the case that these initial “penetration” attacks are launched over a fixed period of time (several
months from approximately April to August). After this initial compromise, the attackers consolidate their
beachhead and begin to analyze the stolen information, spreading through networks and maintaining access as
needed. By analyzing the information gathered, the attackers can identify yet more targets of interest. They may
also eventually be detected and evicted from a compromised network. In later attacks, newly identified targets
can be attacked and old victims can be targeted again. If this is the case, then companies and individuals need to
be on their guard.
Any manufacturers who are in the defense supply chain need to be wary of attacks emanating from subsidiaries,
business partners, and associated companies. It is possible that those trusted companies were compromised
by the attackers who are then using them as a stepping-stone to the true intended target. Companies and
individuals should prepare themselves for a new round of attacks in 2013 utilizing both Adobe Flash and Internet
Explorer zero-day exploits. This is particularly the case for companies who have been compromised in the past
and managed to evict the attackers. The knowledge that the attackers gained in their previous compromise will
assist them in any future attacks.