The Dropper DLL
After the shellcode execution, a “dropper.dll” file is downloaded from the C&C server. The dropper has
two objectives: to check if the system is protected, and to download three more samples and execute
them. The following image shows the main dropper logic.
11 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
Figure 12. The main dropper logic
The dropper uses dynamic loading system libraries to resolve the API entry points and call those APIs
dynamically. The first step is to initialize the API entry points. The following code section shows the
dynamic initialization logic.
Figure 13. System API initialization
Note that all the strings are obfuscated with library names like “kernel32.dll” and “w2s_32.dll.”
Once all the APIs are initialized, the dropper DLL checks for a list of known security software by comparing
the current processes to a predefined list. Figure 14 shows the predefined list of security software.
12 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
Figure 14. The list of predefined security software
The list includes some of the most ubiquitous security products in the market, suggesting that the attacker
is trying to infect unprotected users and avoid detection if possible. If the dropper detects any of the listed
processes, it will abort execution
If it doesn’t detect any of the processes, the dropper will start downloading three more samples using
the same C&C communication format as the shellcode and connect to the same C&C server. The
following images show a partial view of the request and responses with the C&C communication channel.
Connection with the C&C server happens on port 53 over TCP, intending to be confused with DNS traffic.
Figure 15. The dropper’s C&C communication
The victim will send two sequences of bytes in separate packets. The first request is the size of the
second request, while the second request is the file name to be retrieved. The original string name in the
second request is NOTed before being sent (figure 15 shows an example of the real traffic). The server will
then send the file back to the victim’s machine.
The dropper will download three samples: “1.jpg,” “2.jpg,” and “3.jpg.” Each sample is executed as being
downloaded without any additional conditions. This attack generates a lot of red flags, but since the
attacker has already vetted the machine for security software — therefore minimizing the chance of user
protection — the attacker can do a mass deployment of multiple components.
13 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
The following code section shows the download samples being executed inside the
DownloadAndExecuteSamples() function.
Figure 16. Downloaded Samples Execution