Russia/Eastern Europe
Russia—a little bit “too quiet?”
In 1939, Winston Churchill declared that Russia was a “riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma …”.
Seven decades later, cyber defense researchers would say that not much has changed. Compared
with the constant attacks detected from China, you can almost hear the snow falling on Red Square.
One of the outstanding questions in cyber security today is: Where are the Russians? Perhaps they are
simply great hackers. Maybe they have sufficient human intelligence. Whatever the reason, cyber
defense analysts often look in vain for the traces of Russian cybercriminals. As a step toward finding
some answers, however, consider the second half of Churchill’s quote: “… but perhaps there is a key—
that key is Russian national interest.” [40] In other words, where there is smoke, there is usually fire.
In the mid-1990s, at the very dawn of the World Wide Web, Russia was engaged in a protracted struggle
over the fate of Chechnya; the Chechens became pioneers in cyber propaganda, and the Russians
became pioneers is shutting down their websites. In 1998, when Russian ally Serbia was under attack from
NATO, pro-Serbian hackers jumped in the fray, targeting NATO with DoS attacks and at least twenty-five
strains of virus-infected email. In 2007, Russia was the prime suspect in the most famous international cyber
attack to date—the punitive DDoS on Estonia for moving a Soviet-era statue. [41]
In 2008, researchers uncovered clear evidence that computer network operations played a supporting
role in Russian military advances during its invasion of Georgia. [42] Also in 2008, Russia was suspected in
what U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn called the “most significant breach of U.S. military
computers ever”—an attack on Central Command (CENTCOM), delivered through an infected USB
drive. [43] In 2009, Russian cybercriminals were blamed in “Climategate,” a breach of university research
intended to undermine international negotiations on climate change mitigation. [44] In 2010, NATO and
the European Union warned of increased Russian cyber attacks, while the FBI arrested and deported a
possible Russian intelligence agent named Alexey Karetnikov, who had been working as a software
tester at Microsoft. [45]
40 “Winston Churchill,” Wikiquote.
41 Geers K. (2008) “Cyberspace and the Changing Nature of Warfare,” Hakin9 E-Book, 19(3) No. 6; SC Magazine (27 AUG 08) 1-12.
42 “Overview by the US-CCU of the Cyber Campaign against Georgia in August of 2008,” (Aug 2009) U.S. Cyber Consequences Unit.
43 Lynn, W.J. (2010) “Defending a New Domain: The Pentagon’s Cyberstrategy,” Foreign Affairs 89(5) 97-108.
44 Stewart, W. & Delgado, M. (6 Dec 2009) “Were Russian security services behind the leak of ‘Climategate’ emails?”
Daily Mail & “Global warning: New Climategate leaks,” (23 Nov 2011) RT.
45 Ustinova, A. (14 Jul 2010) “Microsoft Says 12th Alleged Russian Spy Was Employee,” Bloomberg.
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 11
One ironic aspect of nation-state cyber attacks—especially in authoritarian countries—is that many
of them are inward facing. In 2012, Russian security firm Kaspersky Lab announced the discovery of
“Red October,” [46] a cyber attack campaign that spied on millions of citizens around the world, but
chiefly within the former Soviet Union. Targets included embassies, research firms, military bases, energy
providers, nuclear agencies, and critical infrastructure. [47] Similarly, in 2013, researchers found malware
on millions of Android devices in Russia and in Russian-speaking countries. Either or both of these attacks
could be partially explained as the Russian government keeping an eye on its own population, and that
of neighboring countries. [48]
On the brighter side, as a step toward cyber détente, the U.S. and Russia in 2013 signed an agreement
to build a cyber “hotline”—similar to that used for nuclear scares during the Cold War—to help defuse
any computer-related crises in the future. [49] But, just to be on the safe side, Russia is taking the extreme
cyber defense measure of buying old-fashioned typewriters, [50] and the Russian military is (like the U.S.,
China, and Israel) creating cyber warfare-focused units. [51]
Russian tactics
Though relatively quiet, Russia appears to be home to many of the most complex and advanced
cyber attacks FireEye researchers have seen. More specifically, Russian exploit code can be significantly
stealthier than its Chinese counterpart—which can also make it more worrisome. The “Red October”
campaign, including its satellite software dubbed “Sputnik,” is a prominent example of likely
Russian malware.
TTP often includes the delivery of weaponized email attachments, though Russian cybercriminals
appear to be adept at changing their attack patterns, exploits, and data exfiltration methods to
evade detection. In fact, one telltale aspect of Russian hackers seems to be that, unlike the Chinese,
they go to extraordinary lengths to hide their identities and objectives. FireEye analysts have even
seen examples in which they have run “false-flag” cyber operations, designing their attack to appear
as if it came from Asia.
One further problem for cyber defense researchers is that some Russian back doors into compromised
systems are hard to distinguish from advanced cybercriminal break-ins.
|Reconnaissance|Likely HUMINT Sources|
|---|---|
|Weaponization|Malicious DOC/XLS File Formats|
|Delivery|Weaponized Email Attachments|
|Exploitation|0-Day Application Vulnerabilities|
|Installation|Feature Rich RAT with Encrypted Modules|
|Command andControl (C2)|HTTP with Custom Embedded Encoding /Encryption|
|Actions on Objectives|Intelligence Gathering (Govt. Focused)|
|TTP Exemplars|Red October|
Table 2: Characteristics of
Russian cyber attacks