4.3 Lateral Movement Tools
After establishing foothold, finding credentials, and acquiring high permissions, the attackers started
performing lateral movement in the target network. In this part of the report we will elaborate on three
prevalent tools used by the attackers at this stage. The tools are used to map servers and open ports,
perform specialized scan for servers and predefined ports, and also perform “pass the hash” attacks.
4.3.1 “STSRCheck”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Discovery (TA0007)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Network Service Scanning (T1046)
While building the campaign, the attackers have individually developed a tool for databases, servers,
and open ports’ mapping in the targeted network. The tool is called “STSRCheck” and it can evaluate
the possibility to access different IP addresses over the following protocols:


SSH – port 22


Telnet – port 23


SMB – port 445


RDP – port 3389


HTTP – port 80


8 thewindowsclub.com/sticky-keys-backdoor-scanner

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
17 | P a g e

MySQL and MsSQL – ports 3306 and 1433, respectively

After the mapping is done, the tool will try to brute-force the usernames and passwords of the targets.
The tool will try by default to log in using generic usernames, like Root or Administrator, combined with
common passwords. The tool also accepts additional list of credentials.
4.3.2 “PORT.EXE”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Discovery (TA0007)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Network Service Scanning (T1046)
The “port.exe” tool is a short piece of code written by the attackers to scan servers and predefined
ports. The tool accepts an input of a server address and a port for scanning, checks whether the port is
open on this server, and return an answer. Unlike STSRCheck, the tool allows to define any port to be
scanned.
Like other files in this infrastructure, it is possible that the file was prepared and deployed already back
in 2017, this according to the file’s time date stamp, which could have been edited by the attackers.

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
18 | P a g e
Another characteristic that can be learned by examining this file is the “ Copyright 2017 ” stamp,
common among the group’s self-developed files:
Other files in this infrastructure, used by the attackers in the second wave of attacks, in late 2019, also
have this stamp.
In 2017, Iran has attacked, through the APT34 espionage group, a large number of Israeli companies
and organizations, most of them in the IT sector. ClearSky revealed in 2017 the campaign’s activity in
Israel, which included attempts to breach Israeli IT companies by impersonating Juniper VPN,
installing a backdoor at the company, and exfiltrating files [9] . In parallel, the Israeli CERT has published
additional indicators of this infrastructure, from which it can be learned about exploitation of VPN
vulnerabilities and targets that we identified in the Fox Kitten campaign as well [10] . Recently, we also
identified a reactivation of some of the indicators from the 2017 campaign.
4.3.3 “Invoke the Hash”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Lateral Movement (TA0008)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Pass the Hash (T1075)
The attackers performed pass-the-hash attacks, using an open-source tool found on GitHub, called
“Invoke the Hash” [11] . The tool contains several PowerShell commands designed to perform pass-thehash attacks in WMI and SMB tasks through .NET TCPCLient. This action is carried out when the
attacker successfully bypasses the NT Lan Manager (NTLM) and connects to the system without having
9 clearskysec.com/oilrig/
10 gov.il/BlobFolder/reports/attack_il/en/CERT-IL%20Incident%20report%20-%20Phishing%20attempts.pdf
11 github.com/Kevin-Robertson/Invoke-TheHash

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
19 | P a g e
access to the target’s passwords in clear text. This package does not require local administrator
privilege on target station.
This package is not downloaded directly from GitHub, but rather downloaded through the VBS files
presented at the beginning of the chapter. After that, PowerShell commands are run in order to gain
access to WMI and SMB on another computer on the network.
Following is a screenshot form the package’s GitHub page, running the Invoke-SMBclient module [12] :