The spear-phish are "the dominant attack vector. They work. They're getting better. It's just hard to stop."
Army's Third Department, which oversees
intelligence-gathering from electronic
communications.
Between April and October 2008, hackers
successfully stole "50 megabytes of email
messages and attached documents, as
well as a complete list of usernames and
passwords from an unspecified (U.S.
government) agency," the cable says.
Investigators say Byzantine Hades
intrusions are part of a particularly virulent
form of cyber-espionage known as an
"advanced persistent threat." The malicious
code embedded in attachments to spearphish emails is often "polymorphic" -- it
changes form every time it runs -- and
burrows deep into computer networks
to avoid discovery. Hackers also conduct
"quality-assurance" tests in advance of
launching attacks to minimize the number
of anti-virus programs which can detect it,
experts say.
As a result, cyber-security analysts say
advanced persistent threats are often only
identified after they penetrate computer
networks and begin to send stolen data to
the computer responsible for managing
the attack. "You have to look for the 'phone
home,'" says Roger Nebel, managing director
for cyber-security at Defense Group Inc., a
consulting firm in Washington, DC.
It was evidence of malicious code phoning
home to a control server -- a computer that
supervises the actions of code inside other
computers -- that provided confirmation to
U.S. cyber-sleuths that Chinese hackers were
behind Byzantine Hades attacks, according
to the April 2009 State Department cable.
As a case study, the cable cites a 10-month
investigation by a group of computer experts
at the University of Toronto which focused
in part on cyber-intrusions aimed at Tibetan
groups, including the office of the exiled
Dalai Lama in Dharamsala, India.
Referencing the Canadian research, the
cable notes that infected computers in the
Dalai Lama's office communicated with
control servers previously used to attack
Tibetan targets during the 2008 Olympics
in Beijing. Two Web sites linked to the attack
also communicated with the control server.
TARGETS DETAILED
The same sites had also been involved in
Byzantine Hades attacks on U.S. government
computers in 2006, according to "sensitive
reports" cited in the cable -- likely a
euphemistic reference to secret intelligence
reporting.
The computer-snooping code that the
intrusion unleashed was known as the
Gh0stNet Remote Access Tool (RAT). It "can
capture keystrokes, take screen shots, install
and change files, as well as record sound with
a connected microphone and video with a
connected webcam," according to the cable.
Gh0st RAT succeeded in invading at least
one State Department computer. It "has
been identified in incidents -- believed to
be the work of (Byzantine Hades) actors -affecting a locally employed staff member at
the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, Japan," according
to the cable.
Evidence that data was being sucked
out of a target network by malicious code
also appears to have led cyber-security
investigators to a specific hacker, affiliated
with the Chinese government, who was
conducting cyber-espionage in the United
States. A March, 2009 cable identifies him
4
Cyber-Espionage april 2001
HACKED: A cleaner sweeps the logo of Google China outside its company headquarters in Beijing, January 19, 2010.  REUTERS/Alfred Jin
of cyber-espionage.
In a private meeting of U.S., German,
French, British and Dutch officials held at
Ramstein Air Base in September 2008,
German officials said such computer attacks
targeted every corner of the German market,
including "the military, the economy, science
and technology, commercial interests, and
research and development," and increase
"before major negotiations involving German
and Chinese interests," according to a cable
from that year.
French officials said at the meeting that
they "believed Chinese actors had gained
access to the computers of several highlevel French officials, activating microphones
and Web cameras for the purpose of
eavesdropping," the cable said.
Reuters graphic/Stephen Culp
as Yinan Peng. The cable says that Peng was
believed to be the leader of a band of Chinese
hackers who call themselves "Javaphile."
Peng did not respond to three emails
seeking comment.
The details of alleged Chinese militarybacked intrusions of U.S. government
computers are discussed in a half dozen
State Department cables recounting intense
global concern about China's aggressive use
TESTING THE WATERS
The leaked State Department cables
have surfaced as Reuters has learned that
the U.S. is engaged in quiet, proxy-led talks
with China over cyber issues.
Chronic computer breaches have become
a major source of tension in U.S. relations
5
Cyber-Espionage april 2011
with China, which intensified after the major
Google hack was disclosed in January 2010,
according to U.S. officials involved in the
talks. Even before the Google hack, Chinese
officials had recognized the problem as well.
In mid-2009, representatives of the China
Institutes for Contemporary International
Relations, a nominally-independent research
group affiliated with China's Ministry of
State Security, contacted James A. Lewis, a
former U.S. diplomat now with the Center for
Strategic and International Studies.
Lewis said that in his first meeting with
his Chinese counterparts, a representative
of the China Institutes asked: "Why does the
Western press always blame China (for cyberattacks)?" Lewis says he replied: "Because
it's true."
There was no response to request for
comment on the talks from the Chinese
embassy in Washington.
Preliminary meetings at CSIS have
blossomed into three formal meetings in
Washington and Beijing over the last 14
months. According to two participants,
the talks continue to be marked by "a lot
of suspicion." Attendees have focused on
establishing a common understanding of
cyber-related military, law enforcement
and trade issues. Cyber-espionage isn't
being discussed directly, according to one
participant, because "the Chinese go rigid"
when the subject is raised.
One reason: for China, digital espionage
is wrapped into larger concerns about
how to keep China's economy, the world's
second largest, growing. "They've identified
innovation as crucial to future economic
growth -- but they're not sure they can do
it," says Lewis. "The easiest way to innovate
is to plagiarize" by stealing U.S. intellectual
property, he adds.
There have been a few breakthroughs.
U.S. and Chinese government officials from
law enforcement, intelligence, military and
diplomatic agencies have attended in the
wings of each discussion. "The goal has been
to get both sides on the same page," says
Lewis. "We're building the groundwork for
official discussions."
A former senior national security official
who has also attended the talks says, "Our
reports go straight to the top policymakers"
in the Obama administration.
Chinese participants have sought to allay
U.S. concerns about a Chinese cyber-attack on
the U.S. financial system. With China owning
more than $1.1 trillion in U.S. government
debt, Lewis says China's representatives
acknowledged destabilization of U.S.
markets would, in effect, be an attack on
China's economy, itself.
Despite the talks, suspected Chinese cyberespionage has hardly tapered off. Documents
reviewed by Reuters show that CSIS itself
recently was the target of a spear-phish
containing malicious code with a suspected
link to China.
On March 1, an email sent from an address
on an unofficial U.S. Armed Forces family
welfare network called AFGIMail was sent
to Andrew Schwartz, chief spokesman for
CSIS. Attached to the message was an Excel
spreadsheet labeled "Titan Global Invitation
List."
An analysis conducted for Reuters by a
cyber-security expert who asked not to be
identified shows the email may have been
sent from a compromised AFGIMail email
server. The Excel spreadsheet, if opened,
installs malicious code which searches
for documents on the victim's computer.
The code then communicates to a Web
site hosting company in Orange County,
California that has additional sites in China.
(Reporting by Brian Grow in Atlanta and
Mark Hosenball in Washington; additional
reporting by Peter Apps in London; editing
by Jim Impoco and Claudia Parsons)
COVER PHOTO: Sgt James Ortiz looks over a rack in the server room at the Air Force Space Command Network Operations & Security Center at Peterson Air Force Base in
Colorado Springs, Colorado July 20, 2010. REUTERS/Rick Wilking
© Thomson Reuters 2011. All rights reserved. 47001073 0310
Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is
prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. ‘Thomson Reuters’ and the Thomson
Reuters logo are registered trademarks and trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.