Prior Knowledge
While the “Lost in Translation” leak by the Shadow Brokers brought infamous exploits such as
EternalBlue into the limelight, it contained many more valuable components that showed some of
the possible precautions taken by the Equation Group operators before launching an attack.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/nazar-spirits-of-the-past/ 1/22
5/6/2020 Nazar: Spirits of the Past - Check Point Research
A screenshot from the original post by the Shadow Brokers
For example, among the leaked files was one called “ drv_list.txt “, which included a list of driver
names and corresponding remarks that were sent back to the operators if the drivers were found
on the target system. Naturally, the list contained many drivers that could detect the presence of
an anti-virus product or a security solution (ourselves included):
Drivers mentioned in “drv_list.txt”
But even more curious were the names of malicious drivers in this list, which if found could
indicate that the target system has already been compromised by another attacker, and would
then warn the operators to “pull back”. Another pivotal component in the Equation Group’s
arsenal that is in charge of such checks is called “Territorial Dispute”, or “TeDi”.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/nazar-spirits-of-the-past/ 2/22
5/6/2020 Nazar: Spirits of the Past - Check Point Research
Territorial Dispute, as seen in the leaked sources
Similar to a scan conducted by a security product, “TeDi” consists of 45 signatures that are used
to search the target system for registry keys or filenames associated with other threat groups. But
we can assume that the end purpose in this case, unlike that of a security scan, is to make sure
that Equation Group’s operations are not disrupted and that their own tools are not detected by
other adversaries (or “other peeps”, as they are called in “TeDi”) monitoring the same system.
Code snippet from TeDi’s leaked sources
In certain cases, this also guarantees that the Equation Group themselves do not disrupt the
ongoing operations of “friendly” threat groups, and do not attack the same target.
Extensive research work has been done by CrySys Labs in 2018 to try and map each of the 45
signatures to the respective threat group it is meant to detect since no names were included in
“TeDi” itself.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/nazar-spirits-of-the-past/ 3/22
5/6/2020 Nazar: Spirits of the Past - Check Point Research
Examples for signatures found on TeDi’s leaked sources
Despite the relatively scarce amount of information it contains, security researchers often revisit
“TeDi” in an attempt to get a better understanding of threat groups that the Equation Group had
visibility to back then, as some of which are still (to this day) unknown to the public.
Security researcher Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade has shown that the 37th signature in “TeDi”
which looks for a file called “Godown.dll” points to what might be an Iranian threat group he
dubbed “Nazar”, rather than a Chinese one as initially thought in the CrySys Lab report.
SIG37, the signature to detect “Nazar” by looking for “godown.dll”
The beauty of the “TeDi” project is perhaps in its minimalism: the small number of signatures it
contained gave the Equation Group the capability of detecting the activity of notorious threat
groups that have eluded detection and managed to remain in the shadows for years: Turla, Duqu,
Dark Hotel, and the list goes on. This is the result of what we can only estimate as years of
intelligence and research work on the Equation Group’s part. Equipped with this knowledge we
set out to find more about the mysterious newly discovered player included in this watchlist:
Nazar.