6.2 The Communication Protocol
The malware performs a GET request to a server with a Base64-encoded string that, if
decoded, reads the following:
For 2011 samples:
crc32
country_code
ComputerName/%USERDOMAIN%
OS major, minor, sp_major, prod_type, architecture(32/64bit)
antivirus_list
proxy_list
version (the version of the malicious sample)
All values are split with ”|”. The entire string is encoded in Base64.
For 2012/2013 samples:
These samples send additional data, such as the system username. Another significant change
is the fact that the malware encodes the text using XOR and a key that results from SHA-1
hashing of the Google identifier. The resulting buffer is then encoded with Base64.
This is a practical example of the GET request:
?a=MjIzMTQyMzkzM3xST3xIT01FL0hPTUV8NXwxfDN8MXwwfC18LXwyLjEy&g=MjIzMTQy
M.
The variables names in the GET requests are randomly-picked. The second variable holds a
CRC modulo 13D455h on the encoded string. The server responds with a GIF file that holds
either a DLL or an EXE file.
16
© 2013 Bitdefender
6.3 Adding Modules and Updates
After a request is sent to the C2, the malware receives a file with a .GIF header. This is usually
a valid image that has appended to it a payload or an update in an encrypted form.
The malware checks for the ‘GIF8’ magic at the beginning of the file and looks for the 0x3b00
word. If the pattern is found, the malware isolates the next four bytes that actually represent
the decryption key, followed by the encrypted payload. Next, the digital signature is verified
and then the payload is decrypted. If it is a DLL file, it attempts to load it via LoadLibrary() ; if it
is an EXE file, it gets written on disk with one of the following names: winupdt.exe,
wcsntfy.exe, netmngr.exe, dumpreport.exe, taskhosts.exe, wupdmngr.exe, winhlp.exe,
dllhosts.exe, dxdiagupd.exe, dialers.exe, netschd.exe, connwiz.exe, certupdt.exe,
repfault.exe, wuapreport.exe, lanmgr.exe . The file is then executed.
The GIF file is digitally signed with RSA 2048bit. The signature is located at the end of the GIF
file and uses SHA-1. This mechanism ensures that the updates are “legit” and prevents an
outsider from pushing a fake update.