Conclusions
The regular usage of satellite­based Internet links by the
Turla group represents an interesting aspect of their
operation. The links are generally up for several months,
https://securelist.com/blog/research/72081/satellite-turla-apt-command-and-control-in-the-sky/ 11/17
2015/10/28 Satellite Turla: APT Command and Control in the Sky - Securelist
but never for too long. It is unknown if this is due to
operational security limitations self­imposed by the group
or because of shutdown by other parties due to malicious
behavior.
The technical method used to implement these Internet
circuits relies on hijacking downstream bandwidth from
various ISPs and packet­spoofing. This is a method that is
technically easy to implement, and provides a much
higher degree of anonymity than possibly any other
conventional method such as renting a VPS or hacking a
legitimate server.
To implement this attack methodology, the initial
investment is less than $1000. Regular maintenance
should be less than $1000 per year. Considering how
easy and cheap this method is, it is surprising that we
have not seen more APT groups using it. Even though this
method provides an unmatched level of anonymfor
logistical reasons it is more straightforward to rely on
bullet­proof hosting, multiple proxy levels or hacked
websites. In truth, the Turla group has been known to use
all of these techniques, making it a very versatile, dynamic
and flexible cyber­espionage operation.
Lastly, it should be noted that Turla is not the only APT
group that has used satellite­based Internet links.
HackingTeam C&Cs were seen on satellite IPs before, as
well as C&Cs from the Xumuxu group and, more recently
the Rocket Kitten APT group.
If this method becomes widespread between APT groups
or worse, cyber­criminal groups, this will pose a serious
problem for the IT security and counter­intelligence
communities.
* A full paper on the Turla group’s use of satellite­based Internet
links is available to the customers of Kaspersky Intelligence
Services.