Strategic Intelligence Assessments:
• Targeting Linux: Adversaries assessed to be acting in the interests of the Chinese
government have strategically targeted Linux servers for years precisely because the
Linux operating system is not typically a primary focus of security solutions. Defensive
coverage within Linux environments is immature at best, and robust endpoint
protection (EPP) and endpoint detection and response (EDR) products are often
inadequately utilized or lack the capabilities to defend them. It was assessed that the
groups examined in this report are using Linux servers as a “network beachhead” for
other operations – that is, as a highly available attack vector that is always-on and
poorly defended.
• APT Groups Coordinating: Persistent threats rarely operate in a single domain, and the
five groups assessed to be related to the APT originally identified as WINNTI GROUP
in previously published research are no exception. Many of the techniques used in one
operating environment have been readily translated for use in others. Cross-platform
and open-source tools are more readily available now than ever, and the APT groups
examined in this report have already exploited this fact.
• Objective Blending and Overlap: BlackBerry researchers observed the continued
blending of financially motivated and targeted espionage activity by the five groups
under examination in this report. The more traditional criminal approaches to
network exploitation are equally effective in their intelligence gathering as they are
in generating revenue. Attacks that look like dragnet, “spray and pray” efforts can
also yield targeted reconnaissance intelligence for other operations, and strategic
platform and supply-chain compromises are becoming increasingly commonplace.
• Attackers for Hire: It is assessed with high confidence that the APT groups examined
in this report are likely comprised of civilian contractors working in the interest of the
Chinese government who readily share tools, techniques, infrastructure, and targeting
information with one another and their government counterparts. This reflects a highly
agile government/contractor ecosystem with few of the bureaucratic or legal hurdles
that can be observed in Western nations with similar capabilities and provides a level
of plausible deniability for the Chinese government.