Sima
History
In February 2016, Iran­focused individuals received messages purporting to be from Human Rights
Watch's (HRW) Emergencies Director, requesting that they read an article about Iran pressing Afghan
refugees to fight in Syria. While referencing a real report published by HRW, the links provided for the 40
Director’s biography and article directed the recipient to malware hosted elsewhere. These spearphishing
attempts represent an evolution of Iranian actors based on their social engineering tactics and narrow
targeting. Although the messages still had minor grammatical and stylistic errors that would be obvious to
a native speaker, the actors demonstrated stronger English­language proficiency than past intrusion sets
and a deeper investment in background research prior to the attempt. The actors appropriated a real
identity that would be expected to professionally interact with the subject, then offered validation through
links to their biography and social media, the former of which itself was malware as well. The bait
documents contained a real article relevant to their interests and topic referenced, and the message
attempted to address to how it aligned with their professional research or field of employment. The
referenced documents sent were malware binaries posing as legitimate files using the common
right­to­left filenames tactic in order to conceal the actual file extension. All of these techniques, while
common pretexting mechanisms, are a refinement compared to a tendency amongst other groups to
simply continually send different forms of generic malware or phishing, in the hopes that one would
eventually be successful.
We tentatively name the campaign “Sima” based on the recurrent presence of “PCSima7” and “PCSima9”
in the metadata of Word documents displayed upon execution of the primary malware agent. While other
indicators align with the attribution to Iran, such as markers that the Visual Studio used in its development
originated from an Iranian software piracy site, Sima is the most unique trait found in our observation.
39 http://www.cnet.com/news/fbi­posts­fake­hyperlinks­to­snare­child­porn­suspects/
40 https://www.hrw.org/news/2016/01/29/iran­sending­thousands­afghans­fight­syria
37
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson
While the Sima (ﺳﻴﻤﺎ) moniker could similarly originate from software labels, it is a common female
Persian name and a Persian­language word for “visage” or “appearance.” Given its use in more advanced
social engineering campaigns against women’s rights activists, the label seem particularly apt.
Based on file modification dates and timestamps of samples, it appears that the observed campaign was
initiated in the middle of February 2016, with the infrastructure taken offline at the start of March. At the
time of observation, and within the resources in spearphishing attempts, the actors behind the campaign
had an active interest in Iranians in the diaspora that were focused on foreign policy and women’s issues.
Samples and resource names contained the family names of prominent Iranians, and several of these
individuals received the malware located in their respective folder. Two other files, named “R.A.D ­ Rape
Aggression Defense for Women” and “VictoriaSecret influence on women gender” indicate an audience
of activists or scholars on women’s rights issues. Another file, entitled “CONFIDENTIAL INVESTOR
SUITABILITY QUESTIONNAIRE” implies that the end recipient is involved in the private sector,
which aligns with a history of Iranian actors of targeting individuals involved with the country’s oil sector
and international businesspersons in the diaspora. Others appear to have been general purpose malware
with generic names that imply that they were sent purporting to be system updates, such as
“GetWindows10­Web_Default_Attr.exe.”
Several samples potentially reflect other impersonation attempts similar to the HRW messages based on
the filenames of the malware. The spearphishing bait was relevant to recent social media activity of the
target, suggesting those behind the Sima campaign were closely monitoring and tailoring pretexting
strategies according to their interests. In another case, the actors mirrored an announcement made about
the broadcast of a television program on Iranian­American cultural affairs in order to impersonate the
individual and engage in spearphishing within hours of the legitimate message. The Sima group also
engaged in impersonation of Citizenship and Immigration Services at the Department of Homeland
Security, posing as a notice about the expiration of the recipient’s Permanent Residence status. This
forged message appeared to be from an address associated with the USCIS, “SCOPSSCATA@dhs.gov,”
and was sent through the anonymous mail relay service anonymousemail.me. As with the HRW message,
the forms referenced actually exist but the links provided in the message directed the recipient to malware
tainted documents.
38
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson
The malware and infrastructure used in the spearphishing attempts was hosted behind an under
construction message with an email signup option that did not function. The server used to host these
malware samples was located on the German provider Hetzner (148.251.55.114), within a small block of
IP addresses that are registered with the customer ID “HOS­156205.” Across other prefixes registered to
this customer identifier, and within the same block as the command and control server, there are a number
of other Persian­language websites, suggesting that the server was purchased through an Iranian reseller
of Hetzner services.
Prior to the removal of the server, the actors uploaded password­protected archives of exfiltrated files to
the server. These files suggested at least twenty­one victims within the short period of the campaign,
however, it is believed that those archives do not covered the entirety of those compromised. Despite the
oversight that made these files available, the archives evince a greater level of professionalism and
detail­oriented work than previous threat actors, with resources highly­organized and bearing descriptive
labeling. These archives provide further indication that those entities behind the campaigns are
Persian­language speakers, due to the naming of files and folders in Persian.
39
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson
Tools & Techniques
All the malware samples that we collected from servers controlled by the actors appear to belong to the
same malware family and they are all configured to contact and exfiltrate data to the same command and
control domains, microupdt.fagdns.com and microupdt.duckdns.org . All the samples appear to be have
been compiled between February 29 and March 1 2016, shortly before our discovery, suggesting that,
despite the known C&C servers having quickly gone offline shortly after, this spree of attacks might be
fresh and currently undergoing.
It is worth noting in fact, that those same C&C domains have appeared and disappeared at convenience
over the course of the many months that took to complete this research work, and may be used by others.
As a matter of fact, the command and control domains we observed resolved to the hosts 154.127.59.97
and 87.121.52.83, which have numerous other domains associated to them through passive DNS records,
and an even larger amount of malware samples configured to contact them. For the sake of narrative we
40
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson
are going to focus exclusively to those samples we identified being used in attacks against Iranian civil
society and diaspora.
We observed Sima employ a few initial droppers, normally written in C# and then obfuscated, often with
SmartAssembly. The first iteration of the stage 1 payload is a very simple application that is designed to
execute the primary payload, and establish and maintain persistence over the compromised system. It
achieves that by the creating a regular startup registry key by invoking the following command:
"C:\WINDOWS\system32\cmd.exe" /c reg add
"HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows" /v
"Load" /d "C:\Documents and Settings\Me\Application
Data\Microsoft\Blend\14.0\FeedCache\protocolhost.exe" /f
The binary protocolhost.exe would normally be an initial stub that just executes the full original payload.
While the folder under which it is stored seems consistent, the file name of the executable seems to vary.
We observed for example the names sigverify.exe and PerfWatson.exe as alternatives to protocolhost.exe .
Interestingly, due to some flaw in the logic of the stage 1, that cmd.exe command is often executed an
endless loop, which will cause terminals to flash continuously, making it hard to properly interact with the
system.
Possibly as an evolution to this poorly designed initial payload, in other attacks the group appears to have
replaced the stage 1 dropper with a new one, which looks cleaner and with an increased attention to detail
and stealthiness. For example, it sets the ZoneID of all of its dropped files to URLZONE_TRUSTED,
generally used to disable security warnings on the provenance of the file, invoking this command:
"C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe" /c echo [zoneTransfer]ZoneID = 2 >
"C:\ProgramData\Winupdt\winupdt.exe":ZONE.identifier & exit
It also sets its error mode to SEM_NOOPENFILEERRORBOX, disabling Windows error dialogs in case
of some malfunction.
Instead of using the more common and more recognizable Windows startup registry keys and folders, this
malware instead creates a Window Task Scheduler XML definition from a premade template it is
provided with:



2014­10­25T14:27:44.8929027
[USERID]



true
[USERID]

41
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson

false




[USERID]
InteractiveToken
LeastPrivilege



StopExisting
false
true
false
true
false

true
false

true
true
false
false
false
PT0S
7



[LOCATION]



After [USERID] and [LOCATION] are respectively replaced with the current user name and the path to
the previously dropped file, this task definition will be registered in Windows as “WinUpdt” by invoking
the following command:
"C:\Windows\System32\schtasks.exe" /Create /TN "WinUpdt" /XML
C:\Users\User\AppData\Local\Temp\633249106.xml
Interestingly, this task definition template seems to be designed to be less pervasive as well as less
suspicious. As a matter of fact, it fakes the date of registration of task to more than a year and a half ago,
it only requests a default low­medium priority, it is not marked as hidden, and it even instructs the
scheduler to terminate the task if the computer is on battery power.
Regardless of which stage 1 dropper was employed, when the primary payload is executed it instantiates
an instance of RegAsm.exe (which is a legitimate Microsoft .NET utility) in a suspended state, performs
process hollowing, and replaces its memory with malicious code. All the significant operations of the
malware are then performed within the context of that process. In all the attacks that we observed, the
injected payload appears to be a RAT known as LuminosityLink, which is commercially available
42
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson
off­the­shelf . While being advertised on its website as a legitimate remote administration tool, 41
LuminosityLink is provided with enough features to make it an appealing solution for any malicious
attacker, and Persian­language security forums includes discussion of the application. 42
In order to deceive the targets of the attacks and making the delivered payload appear more innocuous, all
the artifacts have been configured to display an Office document with varying content. These documents
suggest the nature of the targets, which generally aligns with the identity of those identified through the
names given by the attackers to the folders we retrieved the files from. All the attacks can be classified
under two primary thematic areas: Women Rights and Human Rights in Iran . Therefore, the content of
the decoy documents along, with what we believe are the identities of some of the targets of these attacks,
supports the theory that this campaign is, to the best of our knowledge, dedicated to the surveillance of
members of Iranian civil society and diaspora.
Human Rights in Iran
41 https://luminosity.link
42 http://iedb.ir/acc/da­86­da­af­d9­88­d9­86­d9­87­d8­a7­d8­b2­db­8c­da­a9­d8­b1­t­2836.html
43
The following decoy documents instead appears to be a copy of an original report published by Human
Rights Watch on their website: 44
43 https://tavaana.org/fa/HR_Reports
44 https://www.hrw.org/news/2016/01/29/iran­sending­thousands­afghans­fight­syria
44
This decoy document appears to be the biography of the Director of Emergencies at Human Rights
Watch, as directly taken from their website: 45
45 https://www.hrw.org/about/people/peter­bouckaert
45