I NTRODUCTION
Prior to the highly publicized “Aurora” attack on Google in late 2009, which also
affected at least 20 other companies, there was little public awareness regarding
targeted malware attacks [1] . However, such attacks have been taking place for years
and continue to affect government, military, corporate, educational, and civil society
networks today. While such attacks against the U.S. government and related networks
are now fairly well-known, other governments and an increasing number of companies
are facing similar threats. Russia and other countries in the Commonwealth of
Independent States are also being targeted and compromised. These countries have
an expertise in the space industry and also have operations in oil & gas, mining and
other industry areas that have been targeted by malware attacks in the past.
Malware attacks that exploit vulnerabilities in popular software in order to compromise
specifi c target sets are becoming increasingly commonplace. These attacks are not
automated or indiscriminate nor are they conducted by opportunistic amateurs. Known
as targeted malware attacks, these attacks refer to computer intrusions staged by
threat actors that aggressively pursue and compromise specifi c targets. Targeted
malware attacks are typically part of broader campaigns, a series of failed and success
compromises, by specifi c threat actors and not isolated attacks.
However, the specifi city of the attacker’s prior knowledge of the victim affects the level
of targeting associated with a single attack. As a result, some attacks appear to be
less precise, or “noisy”, and are aimed at a broader community. Such “spear phishing”
attacks are usually “directed toward a group of people with a commonality” as opposed
to a specifi c target but are useful for gaining an initial foothold in a future target of
interest [2] .
The malware used in the “Lurid Downloader” attacks is commonly known as “Enfal”
and it has been used in targeted attacks as far back as 2006 [3] . In 2008, Maarten Van
Horenbeeck documented a series of targeted malware attacks that made use the Enfal
Trojan to target non-governmental organizations, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) as well as defense contractors and U.S. government employees [4] .  In 2009
and 2010, researchers from the University of Toronto published reports on two cyberespionage networks known as “GhostNet” and “ShadowNet” that included malware
and command and control infrastructure connected with the Enfal Trojan [5] .  The
domain names used by Enfal as command and control servers are, according to U.S.
diplomatic cables leaked to Wikileaks, linked to a series of attacks known as “Byzantine
Hades.” According to these leaked cables, the activity of this set of threat actors has
been ongoing since 2002 and is known as “Byzantine Hades”, and there are subsets
of this activity known as “Byzantine Anchor,” “Byzantine Candor” and “Byzantine
Foothold” [6] . However, it is important to note that other than the use of Enfal itself,
there appears to be several distinct sets of command and control infrastructure in use
and the relationship among the threat actors operating these separate infrastructures
remains unclear.
The “Lurid Downloader” attacks appear to be another separate, but related Enfal
network with a geographic focus. While there is clear evidence that the Tibetan
community is also target, the victims of this attack are concentrated in Russia and
other CIS countries. Numerous embassies and government ministries have been
compromised as well as research institutions and agencies related to the space
industry.