RUSSIA
|A|Col2|CrowdStrike 4|
|---|---|---|
|VulnerabilityIdentiferCVE-2019-11510|Target ProductPulse Connect Secure (PCS)|Adversary UseBERSERK BEARCOZY BEARVENOMOUS BEAR|
|CVE-2018-13379|FortiGuard FortiOS SSL VPN|BERSERK BEARCOZY BEAR|
|CVE-2020-2021|Palo Alto Networks OS (includingGlobalProtect VPN)|BERSERK BEAR|
Table 6. Russian Adversary Exploitation of VPN Vulnerabilities
Outlook
In previous years, Russian state-operated groups have been characterized by
significant investment in the development and deployment of custom malware
families to support their intelligence gathering activities. With this dependency
comes increased scrutiny from security researchers and network defenders,
increasing the resource costs for adversaries that have to continually update their
toolsets to evade detection. While various Russian adversaries continue to employ
malware as part of their operational toolkits, they have also increasingly sought
to shortcut traditional operational workflows and focus directly on intelligence
collection from third-party services used by their targets, including direct access
to cloud-based network resources such as email servers. CrowdStrike Intelligence
anticipates this trend is likely to continue in 2021, with previous attempts to breach
single accounts via phishing campaigns making way for larger-scale operations
against enterprise assets using compromised administrator credentials.
From a geopolitical perspective, to counter historically low domestic approval for
President Vladimir Putin amid ongoing COVID-19-related economic contraction in
2021, Russia will likely continue to assert its interests abroad, particularly in hotspots
such as Nagorno-Karabakh and Ukraine, while deepening ties with strategic partners
such as China and select African nations. To this end, Russia is likely to continue to
conduct cyber-enabled espionage against Western military and political targets, and
in key sectors related to the energy, defense and high-tech industries. Moscow’s
relationship with the U.S. is likely to remain adversarial in 2021, with the transition
to U.S. President Joseph Biden unlikely to improve relations with Russia or reduce
state-sponsored cyber operations targeting political and military intelligence related
to the U.S. and its European allies. Further, Russia will likely continue to conduct
information operations against geopolitical competitors, particularly the U.S. These
historically include leaks and intrusions, with targeting that exploits internal political
divisions or instability to exacerbate existing tensions.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 41