Configuration
The configuration data for DePriMon’s third stage has 27 members, which is an unusually large
number for a downloader. It is encrypted with AES-256 and embedded in the binary.
During the first run, DePriMon’s third stage (the downloader itself) decrypts the configuration data
with Key 2 (see the IoCs section), encrypts it with Key 3 and stores the encrypted configuration
file in a temporary folder. The filename for the configuration file is created via the following
process: Starting with the second byte, the value of Key 2 is transformed into a number in base
36 but encoded using custom alphabet “abc…xyz012…789”. The extension of the configuration
file is “.tmp”.
An example of a configuration file path: %temp%\rb1us0wm99sslpa1vx.tmp.
During the second run, the downloader reads the configuration data from the file, not from itself –
this way, the attacker can easily update the configuration.
Thanks to its secure design, the configuration is not left in memory in unencrypted form. Every
time the downloader needs to use some element of the configuration file, it decrypts the
configuration file, retrieves the member and encrypts the file again.
This design protects the malware’s primary function – C&C communication – against memory
forensics.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/11/21/deprimon-default-print-monitor-malicious-downloader/ 3/8
3/4/2020 Registers as “Default Print Monitor”, but is a malicious downloader. Meet DePriMon | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 2. Part of the code as seen by the Hex-Rays decompiler, which illustrates how the DePriMon malware
decrypts the configuration file, saves a few members to local variables and encrypts it again
Of interest in the configuration file are:
Two entries for usernames and two members for passwords – for the proxy server if it is set
on the machine. It means attackers are preparing to further their attack via a proxy with
credentials. However, we haven’t seen functionality for stealing these details, so it appears
that it is done in another phase of the attack.
Three entries for three C&C servers – each of them used on a different occasion.
Three entries for three ports – each of them used on a different occasion.
Flags indicating whether the downloader initializes a connection through Security Support
Provider Interface (SSPI) with a possible proxy or only with a socket (described later).
It should be noted that besides C&C servers extracted from malware samples, we identified
additional domains and servers likely related to this malware.