Stages of the attacks
It should be noted that the above classifications are not set in stone. In some cases, a single
member of the criminal group can combine several roles. Nevertheless, regardless of how
many people execute them, each of the roles described can be found when investigating
almost every money-related cybercriminal incident. Here's how they work in "real time."
1. Exploration. When it comes to targeted attacks on a specific company, the organizer first
instructs the contractors to collect information about the company, which will help to develop
a plausible social engineering scheme for the first stage of attack. If we are talking about an
Kaspersky Lab
20
Russian financial cybercrime: how it works.
attack on individual users, the preliminary exploration stage is skipped or limited to choosing
a "target audience" for the attack (for example, the users of the online banking service of a
specific bank) and creating phishing emails and phishing sites with relevant content.
2. Infection. Penetration of the corporate network is performed by spear-phishing or a
phishing mass-mailing that contains an attachment with the special document or a malicious
web-link. Opening the attachment or following the link leads to malware infection. Often,
infection occurs automatically without the user’s awareness or participation - after clicking on
the link, a malicious program is automatically downloaded on the user’s computer (drive-by
download) and runs on it.
In other cases, infection is carried out via compromised popular sites on which a tool is
placed that invisibly redirects users to a third-party site containing a set of exploits. Once on
this site, the user will be infected with malware.
Once inside the system cybercriminals use a number of malicious tools to consolidate their
presence. For example, to ensure that internal sites of compromised organizations have the
malware reinstalled when the organization’s security software deletes the previous version.
In addition, attackers are often set up within the infrastructure software of the attacked
organization, enabling easy access to the internal corporate network from outside.
3. Exploration and implementation. The programs for remote, hidden administration and
management are downloaded onto compromised computers. They are used by
cybercriminals to gain system administrators’ credentials. Legal programs for remote
management and administration whose functionality is known to many users are often used
for this.
4. Money theft . In the final stage, cybercriminals access the financial systems of the
targeted organization and transfer money from its accounts to the accounts of the mule
projects or withdraw money directly at ATMs.