Network discovery and lateral movement
The adversary continues their discovery of the victim’s network from patient zero. Various scans and
queries are used to find proxy settings, domain controllers, remote desktop services, Citrix services,
and network shares. If the obtained valid account is already member of the domain admins group, the
first lateral move in the network is usually to a domain controller where the adversary also deploys a
Cobalt Strike beacon. Otherwise, a jump host or other system likely used by domain admins is found
and equipped with a Cobalt Strike beacon. After this the adversary dumps the domain admin
credentials from the memory of this machine, continues lateral moving through the network, and
places Cobalt Strike beacons on servers for increased persistent access into the victim’s network. If the
victim’s network contains other Windows domains or different network security zones, the adversary
scans and finds the trust relationships and jump hosts, attempting to move into the other domains
and security zones. The adversary is typically able to perform all the steps described above within one
day.
During this process, the adversary identifies data of interest from the network of the victim. This can
be anything from file and directory-listings, configuration files, manuals, email stores in the guise of
OST- and PST-files, file shares with intellectual property (IP), and personally identifiable information
(PII) scraped from memory. If the data is small enough, it is exfiltrated through the command and
control channel of the Cobalt Strike beacons. However, usually the data is compressed with WinRAR,
staged on another system of the victim, and from there copied to a OneDrive-account controlled by
the adversary.
After the adversary completes their initial exfiltration, they return every few weeks to check for new
data of interest and user accounts. At times they have been observed attempting to perform a degree
of anti-forensic activities including clearing event logs, time stomping files, and removing scheduled
tasks created for some objectives. But this isn’t done consistently across their engagements.