Protection and mitigation
For all regular client computers, the well-established best practice guidelines apply. These computers are often
the first ones to be attacked. Once compromised, the attacker will use these computers and try to explore deeper
into internal networks. Securing and hardening of deployed operating systems with a working strategy for patch
deployment is important. Reoccurring security awareness training can help users to identify social engineering
attempts and prevent them from falling victim to them in the first place.
The company can perform penetration testing on Web and network applications but also on ICSs to identify and
remedy any vulnerability. For examples Web applications should be tested against SQL injection attacks. This can
also help confirm if applied polices are followed through, if the patch level is correct on all computers and if systems
are compliant.
Companies can monitor the Internet for information about attacks in the same vertical and apply lessons learned
where possible.
In addition, different layers of security products can help achieve better overall protection.
• Security Information and Event Manager system (SIEM): Using a SIEM can help correlate all related alerts in
one place. This centralized view can be cross referenced with threat intelligence data to generate prioritization and
an action plan. Painting the bigger picture of the overall security state can reveal previously unnoticed attacks.
For example failed login attempts on internal servers could indicate a password breach. This includes logging of
critical systems and synchronization of time among multiple systems.
• Ingress and egress filtering: Filtering the network traffic with firewalls, content filters and IPS allows the control
of data flows. This can prevent attackers from reaching internal systems. It is important to also monitor outbound
traffic, as data exfiltration is a key point for cyberespionage. It should be noted that with the increased use of
cloud services and mobile devices, some traffic might never pass through the company’s gateways. Where traffic
blocking is too disruptive at least monitoring should be implemented.
• Data loss prevention (DLP): DLP solutions can track the access and flow of critical information and prevent it
from leaving the company or encrypt it automatically.
• Endpoint protection: Depending on the usage pattern of the computer, different solutions are available to protect
the endpoint. Antivirus solution with proactive detection methods like behavioral analysis and reputation scanning
can prevent unknown malware from installing itself. HIPS (host based intrusion prevention systems), behavioral
lockdown or whitelisting can protect computers from any kind of unwanted tampering without the need of
constant updates.
• System protection: For non-standard IT systems, hardening can increase the security. On industrial systems
which are not often updated or that cannot be updated, exploitation can be prevented with the help of lockdown
solutions like Symantec Critical System Protection (CSP). Through policies, only trusted system applications are
allowed to run. ICS should be regularly checked and upgraded if new firmware exists. Where this is not possible
HIPS and behavioral lockdown tools can be used to secure computers.
• Email filtering: Proper email filtering can prevent many spear phishing attempts from reaching users. They can
help minimize the risk of an untrained user falling for social engineering tricks.
• Authentication: Some of the ICS contain hardcoded passwords and, wherever possible, these should be changed.
ICS frequently use weakly authenticated protocols that allow for impersonation attacks. Where possible those
authentication methods should be upgraded or at least closely monitored. Strong authentication or PKI should be
used where applicable.
Industrial control systems (ICS) should be specially protected and monitored. The control system and control
network should be secured. Where possible, ICS should be separate from the Intranet. Isolating these networks alone
is often not enough to protect the control network, but it can make it more difficult for attackers to succeed. For
some systems it can make sense to have a plan to quickly disconnect or separate critical machines in the event of a
detected cyberattack.
Page 17
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector