Main backdoor
We refer to the core component of Industroyer as the main backdoor. The
main backdoor is used by the attackers behind Industroyer to control all
other components of the malware.
As backdoors go, this component is pretty straightforward, connecting
to its remote C&C server using HTTPS and receiving commands from
the attackers. All analyzed samples are hardcoded to use the same proxy
address, located in the local network. Thus, the backdoor is clearly designed
to work only in one specific organization. It is also worth mentioning that
most of the C&C servers used by this backdoor are running Tor software.
Perhaps the most interesting feature of this backdoor is that attackers
can define a specific hour of the day when the backdoor will be active.
For example, the attackers can modify the backdoor in this way so it will
communicate with its C&C server only outside working hours. This can make
detection based only on network traffic examination harder. However, all the
samples analyzed so far are set to work 24 hours round the clock.
Figure 2. The decompiled main backdoor code has a check for time-of-day.
Win32/Industroyer 3
Once connected to its remote C&C server, the main backdoor component
sends the following data in a POST-request:


the globally unique identifier (GUID) string for the current hardware
profile retrieved via GetCurrentHwProfile


the version of the malware: 1.1e


the hardcoded ID of the sample


the result of any previously-received command


The hardcoded ID is used by the attacker as an identifier for the infected
machine. Across all analyzed samples we found the following hardcoded ID
values:


DEF


DEF-C


DEF-WS


DEF-EP


DC-2-TEMP


DC-2


CES-McA-TEMP


CES


SRV_WSUS


SRV_DC-2


SCE-WSUS01


The main backdoor component supports the following commands:
Command ID Purpose
0 Execute a process
1 Execute a process under a specific user account.
Credentials for the account are supplied by the
attacker
2 Download a file from C&C server
3 Copy a file
Command ID Purpose
4 Execute a shell command
5 Execute a shell command under a specific user
account. Credentials for the account are supplied
by the attacker
6 Quit
7 Stop a service
8 Stop a service under a specific user account.
Credentials for the account are supplied by
the attacker
9 Start a service under a specific user account.
Credentials for the account are supplied by
the attacker
10 Replace "Image path" registry value for a service
Once the attackers obtain administrator privileges, they can upgrade
the installed backdoor to a more privileged version that is executed as
a Windows service program . To do this they pick an existing, non-critical
Windows service and replace its ImagePath registry value with the path of
the new backdoor’s binary.
The functionality of the main backdoor that works as a Windows service
is the same as just described. However, there are two small differences:
first the backdoor’s version is 1.1s, instead of 1.1e, and second, there is code
obfuscation. The code of this version of the backdoor is mixed with junk
assembly instructions.
Win32/Industroyer 4
Figure 3. The obfuscated assembly code of the main backdoor that works as
a Windows service.