Naikon / APT 30
The Naikon group is one of the most active APT groups in Asia. Since 2010, it has
launched spear phishing campaigns into organizations surrounding the South China Sea, intent
on harvesting geo-political intelligence from civilian and military government organizations in
the Philippines, Malaysia, Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Singapore, Nepal, Thailand,
Laos, and China. The actors speak native Chinese. Based on the choice of targets, the operating
language, and the sophistication of the toolkit, there is a distinct possibility that Naikon is a
Chinese state sponsored threat group.
Spear phishing campaigns begin with a lure email relevant to the victim that carries a
malicious Microsoft Word document, which, according to Kaspersky Lab, actually contains “a
CVE-2012-0158 exploit, an executable with a double extension, or an executable with an RTLO
filename”. One of its most prolific spear phishing campaigns was the March 2014 attacks
targeting organizations from countries affected by the MH370 tragedy. Upon opening/
execution, the malicious payload, an 8kb encrypted file and configuration data, is injected into
the browser memory where it decrypts the ports and paths to the C2C server, a user agent
18
string, filenames and paths to relevant components, and hash sums of the user API functions.
The malicious code downloads the main malware from the C2C server over an SSL connection
and then it loads it independently of the operating system functions without saving it to the
hard drive by assuming control of the XS02 function and then handling the installation in
memory.
The main component of the Naikon platform is a remote administration component.
According to Trend Micro, the RARSTONE backdoor (BKDR_RARSTONE.A) can obfuscate itself by
“decrypting and loading a backdoor ‘executable file’ directly into memory without the need to
drop the actual ‘executable file.’” The backdoor installs like a Plug X backdoor, injecting code
into hidden instances of internet explorer. The module establishes a connection to the C2C
server to receive and execute any of an estimated 48 commands from the adversary on the
host. These commands include profiling the system, uploading and downloading data,
executing arbitrary code, installing other modules, or executing commands via the command
line. The backdoor routine also has the ability to get installer properties from Uninstall Registry
key entries, which allow it to silently uninstall applications that interfere with the malware. The
espionage malware collects email messages, monitors victims’ keystrokes and screens in real
time, and monitors network traffic.
The command and control infrastructure is minimalistic and organized according to
locations of victims and targets. Communication protocol varied according to target. Some
systems connected directly to the C&C servers while other systems were routed through
dedicated proxy servers. The proxy servers were victim hosts running the XSControl software,
which accepted incoming connections and routed them to relevant C&C servers. The proxy
server application also offered a GUI administration utility, logged client and operator activity,
and transmitted logs to an FTP server. The operator logs contained an XML database of
downloaded files (including a timestamp, the remote path and the local path), a database of
filenames and victim registry keys, and a history of executed commands.
Perhaps the largest news story involving Naikon was the report by Kaspersky Lab that a rival
APT in the region, dubbed the Hellsing group, had attacked the Naikon group. In March 2014,
Hellsing group received a spear phishing email from Naikon and Hellsing responded with a reply
message containing a locked malicious RAR archive labeled “confidential data.” The archive
contained two PDFs and a SCR file, a backdoor specifically customized to target the Naikon
group. The backdoor can upload and download files, update itself, and uninstall itself.
19