Exfiltrated data
During this investigation, we were able to access exfiltrated data for SunBird whose C2
infrastructure had been insufficiently secured.
This is a breakdown of types of data SunBird exfiltrated. This data is from publicly-accessible
exfiltrated content exposed on SunBird C2 servers for 5 campaigns between 2018 and 2019. We
found another 12 GB of data exfiltrated on another C2 server 23.82.19[.]250. The default language of
this server was set up as Chinese when discovered by Lookout researchers. This may be a false flag
or may have been altered by a third party. This also makes it difficult to confirm if all of the data
originated from infections of actual target devices.
https://www.lookout.com/blog/lookout-discovers-novel-confucius-apt-android-spyware-linked-to-india-pakistan-conflict 7/16
8/15/22, 3:43 PM Novel Confucius APT Android Spyware Linked to India-Pakistan Conflict
Frequency of infected devices’ locale and country code settings (translated to languages and
countries) as packaged within publicly-accessible exfiltrated data. This data includes both the
Confucius APT targets and spouseware victims of SunBird.
Left: One particular SunBird C2 server was found to also be exposing a log file containing IP
addresses of those that logged into the administrator panel. The majority of these were distributed
throughout India. Right: Geo-location data captured from a publicly-exposed database found on
another Sunbird C2 IP 23.82.19[.]250. Almost all data stored on this server referenced phone
numbers of various locations in northern India. The second most common region for phone numbers
was Pakistan.
Within the exfiltrated data, one particular victim caught our interest. This individual was
using WhatsApp to correspond with someone applying for a position at the Pakistan
Nuclear Regulatory Authority in 2017. In 2018, messages were uncovered from someone
applying for a position at the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission.9
Additional exfiltrated data from late 2018 and early 2019 indicated that SunBird was
being used to monitor Booth Level Officers10 responsible for field-level information
regarding electoral rolls in the Pulwama district of Kashmir. This time and location is
https://www.lookout.com/blog/lookout-discovers-novel-confucius-apt-android-spyware-linked-to-india-pakistan-conflict 8/16
8/15/22, 3:43 PM Novel Confucius APT Android Spyware Linked to India-Pakistan Conflict
significant as Pulwama suffered a suicide bombing attack in February 2019, which
increased tensions between India and Pakistan. The start date of active monitoring of this
target on C2 servers coincided with the start of the Indian general elections held in April
2019.
Continuous data exfiltration data that occurred every ten minutes stopped at the end of
2018. Aside from one brief upload in January 2019, it suddenly picked up again on the
11th of April 2019. While this may be coincidence, this is also the same day that the
Indian general elections of 2019 began.12
A total of 156 victims were discovered in this new dataset and included phone numbers
from India, Pakistan and Kazakhstan.