Internal Wiki Access
Across multiple StellarParticle investigations, CrowdStrike identified unique reconnaissance
activities performed by the threat actor: access of victims’ internal knowledge repositories. 6
Wikis are commonly used across industries to facilitate knowledge sharing and as a source of
reference for a variety of topics. While operating in the victim’s internal network, the threat
actor accessed sensitive information specific to the products and services that the victim
organization provided. This information included items such as product/service architecture
and design documents, vulnerabilities and step-by-step instructions to perform various tasks.
Additionally, the threat actor viewed pages related to internal business operations such as
development schedules and points of contact. In some instances these points of contact were
subsequently targeted for further data collection.
The threat actor’s wiki access could be considered an extension of “Credential Hopping”
described earlier. The threat actor established RDP sessions to internal servers using
privileged accounts and then accessed the wiki using a different set of credentials.
8/21
CrowdStrike observed the threat actor accessing the wiki as users who would be considered
“non-privileged” from an Active Directory perspective but had access to sensitive data specific
to the victim’s products or services.
At this time, the malicious access of internal wikis is an information gathering technique that
CrowdStrike has only observed in StellarParticle investigations. CrowdStrike was able to
identify the wiki access primarily through forensic analysis of the internal systems used by the
threat actor. Given the threat actor’s penchant for clearing browser data, organizations should
not rely upon the availability of these artifacts for future investigations. CrowdStrike
recommends the following best practices for internal information repositories:
Enable detailed access logging
Ensure logs are centralized and stored for at least 180 days
Create detections for anomalous activity such as access from an unusual location like a
server subnet
Enable MFA on the repository site, or provide access via Single Sign On (SSO) behind
MFA