The attack
Like most targeted attacks, the actors behind this campaign use email as their point of entry. As
in most targeted attacks, the attackers have a very good idea what the individual targets are
interested in, what subjects they are most likely to click on, and use this to their advantage.
Below is a sample email from this group, which was sent to the military attaché of a foreign
country who was assigned to India:
1 Proofpoint, Inc. (2016). Threat Insight Blog. “Operation Transparent Tribe - APT Targeting Indian Diplomatic and Military
Interests.” Last accessed March 23, 2016. https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/Operation-Transparent-Tribe
2 Cloudsek (2015). “Crimeware / APT Malware Masquerade as Santa Claus and Christmas Apps.” Last accessed March 23, 2016
https://www.cloudsek.com/announcements/blog/apt-malware-masquerade-as-christmas-apps-and-santa-claus/
3
Trend Micro | Operation C-Major: Information Theft Campaign Targets Military Personnel in India
Once the PDF files are opened using Adobe Acrobat Reader, an exploit is triggered which drops
a malicious Windows executable file—a Trojan—which then connects to and communicates
with the C&C server. The main features of this Trojan are keylogging and password theft;
however, the attackers, upon their request, can also make it record audio, steal any amount of
files, or take screenshots. Invariably, after a few minutes, the server instructs the infected client
to upload the keystroke log.
We assume that the attackers would use these logs to determine if the affected system is
interesting enough that they need to perform more actions against it. More technical information
about the binary and the C&C communication protocol can be found in the appendix below.
The malware is also compiled into a Microsoft Intermediate Language (MSIL) binary using
Visual Studio. This means that: 1) the original source code was probably VB# (Visual Basic
.NET) or C# (.NET version of C++), and; 2) the developers don’t know (or didn’t care) that these
programs can be easily decompiled. This shows an unusual case of targeted information theft
where the attackers are providing the source code for free. This implies that the threat actors
responsible for it are not very sophisticated, not knowledgeable, or both.
4
Trend Micro | Operation C-Major: Information Theft Campaign Targets Military Personnel in India
The threat actors’ command-and-control (C&C) servers have open directories, and from there
we were also able to identify Microsoft Office files related to several other campaigns against
other Indian targets:
5
Trend Micro | Operation C-Major: Information Theft Campaign Targets Military Personnel in India