38% 11% 9% 8% 7% 7% 20%
Figure 3. Breakdown of abused email addresses, sorted by industry for the period of May to December 2019
Figure 3 shows the breakdown of industries whose email addresses were abused to send out credential
phishing spam. How Pawn Storm could be getting the email credentials of their targets is a point of
interest. Malware could have been utilized to achieve this, but the group could also be using a method
that involves brute-force attacks.
In 2019, Pawn Storm performed daily probes on numerous email servers and Microsoft Exchange
Autodiscover servers across the world. The actor group was connecting to a variety of Transmission
Control Protocol (TCP) ports that were related to email. We observed that most of the probing were aimed
5 | Pawn Storm in 2019: A Year of Scanning and Credential Phishing on High-Profile Targets
at TCP port 443 (used by webmail and Microsoft Exchange Autodiscover services), while email protocols
like the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) [143, 993], the Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3) [110, 995],
and the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) [465, 587] were also checked.
This was done in an apparent attempt to look for vulnerable systems, brute force credentials, exfiltrate
email data, and send out spam waves. We have data on months of probing against hundreds of email
servers worldwide and can thus make semi-statistical breakdowns by industry and by country or region.
These breakdowns strongly depend on the different interests of Pawn Storm that vary over time.
Below we listed a sample of Pawn Storm’s typical targets from August 2019 to November 2019.
Table 1. The nature of organizations that had their email server scanned by Pawn Storm
(mail, Autodiscover on port 443 and/or IMAP on port 993)
For the entries in red, we suspect Pawn Storm performed large-scale data exfiltration, based on
the significant amount of data that was transferred in those timeframes and the duration of the
connections made.
We found some of the group’s typical targets in the list, such as armed forces, defense companies,
governments, law firms, political parties, and universities. Surprisingly, the list also included a couple of
private schools in France and the United Kingdom, and even a kindergarten in Germany.
6 | Pawn Storm in 2019: A Year of Scanning and Credential Phishing on High-Profile Targets