2. General information
The analysis in this document is based on the a sample received by F-Secure Labs with the following SHA1:
SHA1: 5191d7e28ffd1bc76ec7ed02d861679a77f2c239
An examination of the static properties of the file reveals that the file is a 64-bit Dynamic Link Library for the Microsoft
Windows operating system. The file’s PE headers provide also the following interesting information:


The creation time of the file is 19:37:07, 25.11.2011 according to the PE header’s TimeDateStamp field.


The linker version is set to 9.00. This is consistent with Visual Studio 2008 Orcas, initially released in 2007.
Despite not being the latest version of Microsoft’s development tools available at the moment of the
(suspected) compilation of the DLL, Visual Studio 2008 is able to generate x64 binaries. This might hint at the
fact that this binary was produced using an existing development framework as part of an existing operation.


The binary appears to be digitally signed by Microsoft. The digital signature will be further considered in
section 4, but it is at this point interesting to note that the validity range of the certificate does encompass the
binary creation date as specified in the PE header. Keeping in mind that the adversary has done a tremendous
effort in camouflaging this binary, it is reasonable to assume that the binary was indeed produced at the time
specified by the PE header.


The DLL exports 16 functions, which are simply forwarders for functions exported by wshtcpip.dll, a standard
component of Microsoft Windows. These exports will be considered again in section 4.


The analysis of the sample’s strings, in combination with the symbols specifically imported from other modules, hint at the
fact that the sample we have analyzed might interact at a low level with physical drives of the machine it is running on. For
example, the string PRIVHEAD is a strong indicator that the sample might have some knowledge of Microsoft Windows’
Logical Disk Manager (LDM); in fact, such PRIVHEAD is the expected magic value for LDM’s PRIVATE_HEADER structures.
Proper malware analysis presented in section 4 will confirm these suspicions.
Finally, the string ’\.\’ is particularly interesting. The format of the string, specifically the ’WINDOWS’
substring between angular brackets, is an indication of a strong connection between this sample and 32-bit samples
of stage #1 of the complex threat named Regin; in fact, samples of Regin’s 32-bit stage #1 used a similar format to mark
strings that needed expansion.