The Syrian Electronic Army (SEA)
The Syrian Electronic Army is a public online political group that emerged in 2011 to
support Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his regime. The army arose days after Syria
lifted its online ban of Facebook and YouTube. SEA was once managed by the Syrian
Computer Society, which was headed by President al-Assad in the 1990s. The Syrian
Computer Society, which regulates the internet within Syria, even registered the SEA website.
The SEA may be partially or entirely supported by the Syrian government. At present, the
SEA’s domain is no longer hosted by the Syrian Computer Society and it claims no ties to the
government. Based on the aptitude at social media and the humor used on defaced sites, the
army likely consists of young adult males. One “inside source” claimed that the group
consisted of nine Syrian college students; however, no other sources have verified this claim.
46
By all appearances, the SEA conducts attacks to garner global attention rather than
to steal data or financial information. The SEA primarily targets media outlets and
journalists, political groups that oppose al-Assad’s regime, human rights groups, and
western organizations. Most SEA attacks target the websites and social media accounts of
United States news organizations because it argues that the outlets spread anti-Syria
propaganda. The SEA uses malware and phishing campaigns to actively monitor Syrian
rebels and members of Human Rights groups.
SEA attacks begin with phishing through spam or spear phishing using detailed
information obtained from previous campaigns. The SEA attempt to gain user
credentials, which it then uses to seize control of the websites and social media
accounts of prominent organizations. The army has attacked the websites and/or social
media accounts of: “60 Minutes,” Al-Jazeera, Associated Press, BBC News, CBC News,
CNN, The Daily Telegraph, Financial Times, The Guardian, The Onion, National Public
Radio, The New York Times, Reuters, Time, and The Washington Post. Once it has
control, The SEA posts fake stories or news and collects any confidential information
that could be useful in future attacks, such as contact names. When phishing attempts
fail, SEA may resort to malware, website defacement through web exploits, or denial of
service attacks leveraging botnets. If no attack vector succeeds, then the SEA resorts to
bombarding the social media accounts of its target with pro-Syria messages.
Most attacks amount to a banner ad or redirection to a site that supports al-Assad;
however, the attacks can have tangible impacts. When the SEA hacked the Associated Press
Twitter account in 2013, they posted a message that the White House had been bombed
and that President Obama was injured. The post resulted in a noticeable impact on the
DOW Jones and the S&P 500 Index (~$136.5 billion).
In their attack on the New York Times, the SEA demonstrated the ability to breach a
major domain registrar, Melbourne IT, using stolen credentials and redirect internet traffic
or seize ownership of domains, such as Twitter. The SEA has also compromised the
GoDaddy domain registrar, social media management services, and third party applications
that serve news articles. The attack on a registrar indicates that the SEA may begin to attack
third party services and underlying infrastructure in order to compromise its target.
Recently, the SEA has attacked larger targets such as Microsoft, Facebook, EBay, and PayPal
through the underlying infrastructure.
47