Attribution
North Korean Infrastructure
We attribute APT38 to North Korean state-sponsored operators based on a combination of technical indicators
linking the activity to Pyongyang and details released by DOJ implicating North Korean national Park Jin Hyok
in a criminal conspiracy. We assess with high confidence that these activities were directed and sponsored by
the North Korean government. Because the North Korean regime keeps strict control over communications and
internet infrastructure in the country, it is highly improbable that these operations could be conducted without
the knowledge or explicit sponsorship of the government.

The DOJ complaint also detailed two blocks of IP addresses used by Park in APT38 and other North Korean

operations:
Table 1. North Korean IP address ranges
North Korean IP Address Range Description
175.45.176.0 – 175.45.179.255 IP range registered to a company in Pyongyang
210.52.109.0 – 210.52.109.255 IP range registered to a company in China but leased to
North Korea

The use of these ranges by APT38 for their operations has been corroborated by third-party reporting:

— A public report by Group-IB indicated APT38 logged into watering hole domains associated with (brou.com[.]
uy, cnbv.gob[.]mx knf.gov[.]pl) from two IPs (210.52.109.22 and 175.45.178.222) within the same North Korean IP
ranges.
— A report by Kaspersky indicates APT38 also logged into an Apache Tomcat server used to host its malicious
files from the same IP range (175.45.176.0 -175.45.179.255) in January 2017.

As detailed in the DOJ complaint, a sample of WHITEOUT (aka Contopee) malware we attribute to APT38

was used between 2015 and 2016 against a Southeast Asian bank. The sample used a specific DDNS domain,
onlink.epac[.]to, which was managed by an account at a DDNS provider. The same account was accessed on
October 6, 2015 from a North Korean IP address.

As detailed in the DOJ complaint, the North Korean operators conducted reconnaissance on a Southeast Asian

bank, including visiting its website, researching the business identifier code (BIC) used by the SWIFT system
to uniquely identify the bank, and the BIC code for a corresponding bank needed to carry out the intended
fraudulent transactions. This is evidence of shared motivation and intent to target the SWIFT system by the
North Korean operators performing the reconnaissance and APT38 which later targeted that organization.
Shared Resources, Motivation
Malware overlaps between APT38 and TEMP.Hermit
highlight the shared development resources accessible
by multiple operational groups linked to North Korean
state-sponsored activity. Although these are disparate
operations against different targets and rely on distinct
TTPs, the malware tools being used either overlap
or exhibit shared characteristics indicating a shared
developer or access to the same code repositories.
Although APT38 is distinct from other TEMP.Hermit
activity, both groups operate consistently within the
interests of the North Korean state.

Malware similarities, including code overlap and shared

functions, are a primary connection between APT38
and other operations still attributed to TEMP.Hermit.
For additional malware similarity details, please see the
preceding section.

APT38's increasingly aggressive targeting against

banks and other financial institutions has paralleled
North Korea's worsening financial condition (Figure 4).
Similarly, TEMP.Hermit campaigns against U.S. defense
contractors and South Korean government offices
and companies is consistent with other North Korean
objectives.
Links to North Korean Military Units
Based on details published in the DOJ complaint against
North Korean programmer Park Jin Hyok, we know that
APT38 and other cyber operators linked to TEMP.Hermit
are associated with Lab 110, an organization subordinate
to or synonymous with the 6th Technical Bureau in North
Korea's Reconnaissance General Bureau (RGB). The
organization is believed to leverage front organizations to
mask their activities, including infiltrating networks and
gathering intelligence. These relationships are outlined in
Figure 3.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 27

The DOJ complaint and open sources report that Lab

110 operates out of front companies typically based in
northeast China. Identified fronts include Chosun Expo
Joint Venture in Dalian and Chosun Baeksul Trading
Company in Shenyang.

Firsthand accounts, information provided by a foreign

investigative agency, and common IP addresses used to
access the company website and associated accounts
while connecting to and from North Korea corroborate
reports that Chosun Expo was a front company
operated by authorities in Pyongyang.

Similar units reportedly operate in other regions around

the world, including Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, and
other parts of China.

Malware developers and other adversary actors are

believed to be recruited out of North Korea's universities
and directly into military units, such as Lab 110. Schools
reportedly feeding into these units include Kim Chaek
University of Technology and Kim Il Sung Military
Science University.
Figure 10. Archived website for Chosun Expo Joint Venture
(Source: archive.fo)
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 28