TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted
upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the
particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing
herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro
reserves the right to modify the contents of this document
at any time without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy
is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise
related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to
the original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
Published by
Trend Micro Research
Written by
Hara Hiroaki
Ted Lee
Stock image used under license from
Shutterstock.com
Cyberespionage has become a more prevalent threat in today’s security landscape, putting
private enterprises and public agencies alike at risk of major upsets to their operations.
This research paper covers the technical details of a new cyberespionage campaign that
we believe can be traced back to the notorious advanced persistent threat (APT) group
Earth Baku. In this campaign, Earth Baku’s attacks have been leveled against companies in
various countries in the Indo-Pacific region.
Trend Micro has previously covered the various methodologies employed by this APT
group, which also operates under the alias APT41. Its exploits have been well documented;
the group has garnered a reputation for its use of advanced, self-developed tools. [1] In fact,
Earth Baku has been associated with a slew of cybercrimes such as watering hole attacks [2]
and spear phishing attacks. [3] Its previous targets include companies in the pharmaceutical
and telecommunications industries.
Earth Baku has yet again updated its arsenal, as evidenced by the latest additions of two
shellcode loaders, which we have named StealthVector and StealthMutant, and a modular
Windows backdoor, which we have dubbed ScrambleCross. Our in-depth analysis of these
newfound malware tools revealed that they have easily customizable features and are
distributed through different attack vectors, making it convenient for malicious actors to
tailor them to specific victims.
This report aims to shed light on the sophisticated toolset involved in this new campaign,
although Earth Baku’s motives behind the development of the shellcode loaders and
backdoor are not entirely clear. While these have been probably used as part of state
backed attacks to collect competitive intelligence, the inner workings of Earth Baku itself
remain unknown. It is likely that the group is composed of threat actors who collaborate by
sharing tools with diverse attack infrastructures, [4] but their use of the new shellcode loaders
and backdoor suggests that they have recruited members with specific areas of expertise.