Axiom
The Axiom group is a Chinese, potentially state-sponsored, threat actor that
compromises systems that contain information of value to advancing China’s 12 [th ] Five Year
Plan. Axiom was investigated in the October 2014 Operation SMN, a joint operation
between private firms, led by Novetta which released information and led to the removal
of Axiom malware from over 43,000 systems.
Since 2009, Axiom has been targeting networks in a broad range of sectors who
possess confidential or classified information. Axiom campaigns share infrastructure,
malware, or attack techniques with Operation Aurora (2009), the Elderwood Project (2009
2014), the VOHO campaign (2012), the Shell_Crew attacks on ColdFusion servers (2013),
Operation Ephemeral Hydra (2013), Operation Snowman (2014), and 2014 attacks on
American Middle Eastern Policy think tanks. Axiom could be connected to some of these
other groups; however, it is more likely that Axiom advantageously adopts zero-day exploits
or malware that are effective in other campaigns. It is possible that Axiom acquires its
malware on deepnet or through underground trade.
Axiom is likely Chinese state sponsored, but there are no definitive links connecting it
to the Third Department, which houses China’s offensive threat groups Putter Panda and
APT1. Axiom malware was configured to use simplified Chinese language settings and some
of the filenames are in Chinese. Axiom is more sophisticated in its operations than the
aforementioned Third Department groups. It utilizes different resources, and it may have a
different mission than Third Department groups. Novetta hypothesizes that based on
Axiom’s domestic monitoring trends that it might be charged with domestic operations and
targeting Chinese dissidents in other countries. Universities and research institutions in Hong
Kong and mainland China have been targeted with Hikit malware for persistent operations.
This could indicate state-sponsored concern over liberal academics and students.
10
Novetta has found that Axiom targets a wide variety of entities inside and outside
governments. Axiom targets a wide variety of sectors, but it only targets specific entities in
those sectors. Within Asian and Western governments, Axiom targets law enforcement,
governmental records and communication agencies, environmental policy agencies,
personnel management divisions, space and aerospace exploration and research entities,
government auditing and internal affairs divisions. In the science and technology sectors,
Axiom targets networks belonging to electronics and integrated circuitry manufacturers,
networking equipment manufacturers, internet based service companies, software vendors,
cloud computing companies, energy firms, meteorological service companies,
telecommunications firms, and pharmaceutical companies. Additionally, Axiom has targeted
journalism and media outlets, Human Rights NGOs, international law firms, international
consulting and analysis firms, and high ranking United States academic institutions. Most of
the target’s organizations have been located in the United States, South Korea, Taiwan,
Japan, and the European Union, with a majority of the breaches along the Eastern seaboard
of the United States and Western Europe.
Axiom targeting coincides with interests reflected in China’s 2006 and 2011 Five
Year Plans, which push for advanced technology and advanced R&D efforts. As China shifts
away from foreign technology, more organizations may be targeted by Axiom. The actor
may target semiconductor and networking technology firms with offices in China because
China wants to reduce its dependency on foreign technology. Western and Asian
organizations may be targeted in intelligence and counterintelligence operations. Axiom
targets NGOs concerned with international politics, environmental policy, pro-democracy
movements, or human rights movements. In some instances, Axiom will target a satellite
office and move laterally through the compromised network to the main office. Novetta
theorizes that Axiom targets NGOs as a means of the Chinese ruling party keeping track of
watchdog organizations and other groups who may publish claims that challenge the
authority or “soft power” of the party. Targeting NGOs may also enable the party to
suppress dissidents or intimidate whistleblowers.
Novetta believes that Axiom has a six stage victim lifecycle that uses a different team
for each stage of the attack. This indicates large scale organization and coordination. Initially,
the target is identified and the actor conducts reconnaissance. Then the system is
compromised, confirmed to be a valuable target, and the network is surveyed. The actor
laterally moves through the network and creates additional footholds. Compromised C2
infrastructure is connected to the victim network. Finally, valuable data is identified and
exfiltrated.
11
Axiom initially compromises systems through web based attacks, targeted attacks
against public facing infrastructure, zero-day exploits, watering hole attacks and phishing
emails. Once a system is compromised, Axiom spends a few days determining whether it is
valuable. If it is determined to contain useful information, then the group installs persistent
malware platforms. Otherwise, the group tries to move laterally through the network to
locate more valuable systems. Axiom has proven capable of compromising large pools of
machines and sifting through them in hours or days to find the valuable ones. This indicates
dedicated resources, possibly a dedicated targeting team and a deterministic set of criteria.
After the initial compromise, Axiom begins reconnaissance to identify where they are in the
target network and to identify any changes that have been made to the network. Axiom
then escalates privileges using previously compromised administrative accounts, local
exploits, or remote exploits as demonstrated in ZoxRPC malware. Then, over the course of
minutes or months, they try to dump the latest user credentials and exfiltrate the data. Once
inside the network, Axiom can also exploit Remote Desktop Protocol or exploit
vulnerabilities in the custom tools designed by the organization itself. This allows Axiom to
“fly under the radar” and not alert antivirus or IDS systems to the compromise.
As the campaign continues, Axiom may install additional families of malware as a
mechanism of remaining in the system even if one malware is discovered by the target.
Compromised systems have featured up to four layers of malware ranging from extremely
common (Poison Ivy, Gh0st, ZXshell) to focused tools used by threat groups (Derusbi, Fexel)
to custom Axiom malware (ZoxPNG/ZoxRPC, Hikit). Axiom routes its activity through
compromised proxy infrastructure in the United States, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong,
and Japan to try to disguise its traffic as legitimate to casual observation.
Novetta observes that the Hikit malware is unique to Axiom and is only used on high
value targets at the height of the victim’s operational lifecycle. Of the 43,000 compromised
systems discovered in Operation SMN, only 180 systems were infected with the Hikit
malware. Hikit is a late stage persistence and data exfiltration tool that is capable of
uploading and downloading files, generating a remote shell, tunneling into the network, and
connecting to other infected machines to generate a secondary network.