Overview The Sygnia Incident Response team recently identified an organized and experienced threat group siphoning off funds from businesses in the financial sector by patiently studying the targets’ financial systems, injecting fraudulent transactions hidden among regular activity, and ultimately stealing millions of dollars. This group uses an array of tools and scripts to operate undetected for vast amounts of time. Sygnia refers to this threat as Elephant Beetle .
1 https://www.mandiant.com/resources/fin13c ~~ybercriminal-mexico~~
For the past two years, Sygnia’s Incident Response (IR) team has been
tracking a financially motivated threat group targeting and infiltrating
organizations from the finance and commerce sector in Latin America .
The attack is relentless in its ingenious simplicity serving as an ideal tactic
to hide in plain sight, without any need to develop exploits.
Using an arsenal of over 80 unique tools & scripts, the group executes
its attacks patiently over long periods of time, blending in with the
target’s environment and going completely undetected while it quietly
liberates organizations of exorbitant amounts of money. We are
dubbing this group – Elephant Beetle .
Elephant Beetle seems to primarily focus on the Latin American market,
but that doesn’t mean that organizations that are not based there are
safe. Sygnia’s IR team discovered and responded to an incident at a
U.S. based company with an operations branch in Latin America. As
such, both regional and global organizations should be on their guard.
The group is highly proficient with Java based attacks and, in many
cases, target legacy Java applications running on Linux-based
machines as the means for initial entry to the network. Not only that,
the group even deploys their own complete Java Web Application on
the victim machine to do their bidding while the machine also runs the
intentional application.
This report is a technical play-by-play of the Elephant Beetle attack as
detected, observed and mitigated by Sygnia’s IR team. Elephant
Beetle resembles the group tracked by Mandiant as FIN13 [1] .
Elephant Beetle operates in a well-organized and stealthy pattern,
efficiently executing each phase of its attack plan once inside a
compromised network:

During the first phase, which can span up to a month, the

group focuses on building operational cyber capabilities in
the compromised victim’s network. The group studies the
digital landscape and plants backdoors while customizing
its tools to work within the victim’s network.

The group then spends several months studying the victim’s

environment, focusing on the financial operation and
identifying any flaws. During this stage, it observes the
victim’s software and infrastructure to understand the
technical process of legitimate financial transactions.

The group can then inject fraudulent transactions into the

network. These transactions mimic legitimate behavior and
siphon off incremental amounts of money from the victim, a
classic salami tactic. Although the amount of money stolen
in a single transaction may seem insignificant, the group
stacks numerous transactions to what amounts to millions of
dollars before the group moves on.
4. If during its efforts any fraudulent activity is discovered and
blocked, they then simply lay low for a few months only to
return and target a different system.
2