Targeted malware — previous research
In September 2002, Tibetan groups reported that they were targeted with malware originating
from servers in mainland China. They claimed that this was a coordinated attempt to disrupt their
operations and spy on their computer networks. Similar attacks have occurred since then against a
range of Tibetan non-state actors, including exile groups, human rights organizations, trade unions
and labour organizers, writers, scholars and intellectuals.
In 2005, a member of our investigating team convened a working group that coordinated the
collection and archiving of the malware, including the payloads and associated examples of social
engineering employed. Since early 2008, we have analysed every sample available to us, and
identified control servers for at least fifty incidents.
During an analysis of attacks which occurred during the 2008 Beijing Olympics we discovered
the location of a control server that was later identified as part of the network which infected a
computer in the private office of the Dalai Lama.
35 The Drewla Initiative Project is an outreach model that seeks new ways to communicate directly with citizens of the People’s
Republic of China. It relies heavily on the Internet.
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART TWO
18
We were able to gain access to the command interface of this control server and identify the
infected computers which reported back to this server. While were are unable to prove exactly how
the computer in the Dalai Lama’s office became infected, this case demonstrates one of the attack
vectors used by the attacker(s) behind the network of infected computers we later uncovered. [36]
The following steps illustrate the attack vector using the malicious document we collected, which was
configured to connect to a control server to which we later acquired access. ( See Fig. 1 - p.19)
An email message arrives in the target’s inbox carrying the malware in an attachment or web link.
The attackers(s)’ objective is to get the target to open the attachment or malicious link so that the
malicious code can execute. In this case, the attacker(s) sent a carefully crafted email message which
was configured to appear as if it was sent from campaigns@freetibet.org with an attached infected
Word document named “Translation of Freedom Movement ID Book for Tibetans in Exile.doc” to entice
the recipient to open the file. [37] ( See Fig. 2 - p. 20)
Over time, it has been observed that the carrier emails have become more sophisticated in their
targeting and content in order to trick their recipients into believing that they are receiving
legitimate messages. This is also known as “social engineering.” It is common to see legitimate
documents recycled for such attacks or the attacker injecting their message into an ongoing group
conversation. There are also cases where it appears that content stolen from previously-infected
machines was recycled to enhance the appearance of legitimacy.
The targeted user proceeds to opens the attachment or malicious link. Once opened, the infected
file or link exploits a vulnerability on the user’s machine and installs the malware on the user’s
computer, along with a seemingly benign file. From the user’s perspective, the infected document
will often open normally, leaving the user unaware of the infection that just took place.
Only 11 of the 34 anti-virus programs provided by Virus Total [38] recognized the malware embedded in
the document. Attackers often use executable packers to obfuscate their malicious code in order to
avoid detection by anti-virus software. ( See Fig. 3 - p. 21)
Researchers monitoring the use of socially engineered malware attacks against the Tibetan
community have identified over eight different Trojan families in use. [39] Control over some targeted
machines is maintained using the Chinese gh0st RAT (Remote Access Tool). These Trojans generally
allow for near-unrestricted access to the infected systems.
36 A detailed technical investigation of a similar case of a targeted attack which connected to the same control server is available
here: ~~http://xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx;~~ another investigation of targeted attacks connecting to the same control
server is available here: ~~http://www.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx~~
37 For a detailed list of malicious files and control servers see xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
38 VirusTotal.com is a free, web-based service that allows users to upload malicious files that are scanned with 34 leading anti-virus products.
39 http://isc.sans.org/diary.html?storyid=4177
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART TWO