4. BEYOND BABAR
At the time of writing two Babar64 droppers are known, dropping one implant each. They both
show traits of the malware described by CSEC, being attributed to French intelligence with
„moderate certainty“ [2].
The CSEC document mentions uncovering the attack in 2009. The compilation timestamps of the
binaries date back to August 2011. While these can be faked it is still unlikely that the authors
would change the 2009-timestamp to a future date. This, and the mentioning of 'Babar' instead of
'Babar64' by CSEC indicates that the samples at hand stem from a more recent campaign.
Besides the project name, Babar64 also shares the malformed user agent string described in the
document, where a letter from the MSIE 6.0 name is missing.
Illustration 8 | The malformed user agent string showing 'MSI' instead of 'MSIE'
The second Babar64 binary comes with its own set of C&C servers:


http://www.alexpetro.com/images/training/courses/bb212/index.php


http://www.etehadyie.ir/images/public/bb212/index.php


The first one is the legitimate website of AlexPetro Technical Services, a company operating in the
oil and gas industry in Kairo, Egypt. The second domain is Iranian, allegedly owned by a web design
company named Radcom.
What links Babar64 to other families analyzed beforehand, such as Bunny or TFC (also called NBOT)
are shared portions of source code and re-used coding techniques. The enumeration of anti-virus
software and the code to query the system's proxy settings are almost identical. Furthermore, the
samples at hand show the same partial API name obfuscation as Bunny and TFC. What has
changed is the hashing algorithm. Also common among all of the families seems to be to hold
system specific configuration data in memory at runtime, although this holds true for a lot of
malware.
Putting Babar, Bunny and TFC in context a number of conclusion can be drawn. Looking at the
compilation timestamps and assuming they are not faked (which is backed by VirusTotal
submission dates), the oldest family is TFC being active throughout 2010. These are DDoS bots,
used to build a botnet which can be utilized to attack adversaries on the internet.
page | 16
Next on the timeline is Babar64, allegedly compiled middle of 2011 and first seen on VirusTotal
middle of 2012. It is believed that this strain has been active from 2011 until 2013, spying on
dedicated targets rather than being spread widely.
Last comes Bunny, compiled second half of 2011 and making its first public appearance during the
analysis of the Adobe Reader exploit for CVE-2011-4369 [9]. At the time when Bunny was spread
through CVE-2011-4369, before December 2011, the vulnerability was unknown to the public.
Bunny itself is a Lua script execution platform, not including any spying capabilities.
All three families leave the impression of being developed by a team of skilled software
developers, rather than being the product of a malware author operating in the criminal
underground. Also none of the binaries makes attempts of hiding its intentions, which is a
common trait among targeted malware. Heavy obfuscation or the use of crypters easily raises
suspicion of heuristics based malware scanners.
However, besides the CSEC document there was no obvious pointer found leading to the
conclusion that Babar and its companions were set out by French inteligence services. As it is with
digital crime, chances are high no proof will ever evolve and research will be limited to educated
conclusions. The drawing of personal educated conclusions is left as an exercise for the interested
reader.
page | 17