1. European Central Bank phishing website
In late August 2019, we detected a CobInt attack that presumably targeted European financial institutions. We do not know whether the attack was
successful. CobInt was dropped by a custom NSIS installer. We detected three versions of the dropper: for Chrome, Firefox, and Opera. Each
dropper contained the same CobInt version and a browser-specific installer. Once launched, the dropper saved CobInt to the %TEMP% folder and
then ran CobInt and the installer. Malware analysis proved that the droppers were distributed from the phishing website ecb-european[.]eu.
Figure 3. Phishing website main page
The site was a copy of the European Central Bank website, except for a pop-up window that asked visitors to update the browser.
Figure 4. Pop-up window on the fake ECB website
Visitors who fell for the ruse downloaded the dropper to their computer. The page source code contained a link to the script that displayed the popup window.
Figure 5. Link to malicious script
The configuration strings in the script contain links for four droppers (we could not obtain the first one) and allow creating links for Safari, Edge,
and Internet Explorer. The strings also show the window start time after loading the page, how many times the window will be shown to a user,
type of device on which the window will be displayed, and which banner will be shown to the user. In addition, the script detects bots, crawlers,
and spiders.
Figure 6. Malicious script parameters
Here are alternative windows contained in the script:
Figure 7. Alternative window specified in the script parameters
Figure 8. Alternative window specified in the script parameters
We do not know how the user landed on this website. Most likely, the user would be a victim of a phishing attack like many of those performed by
Cobalt.
The framework in question is not unique. We believe that Cobalt purchased it on a darkweb forum. In an article from November 2019, Zscaler
described a similar scenario for spreading NetSupport RAT. The framework was placed on compromised sites, which showed visitors a
corresponding pop-up window.
In yet another case, the malicious file Login_Details.img was also distributed from the site ecb-european[.]eu. Our colleagues from Group-IB have
provided a detailed analysis of the malware.