Carbanak
The Carbanak group is a criminal advanced persistent threat group whose attacks
against dozens (potentially hundreds) of global financial institutions resulted in an estimated $1
billion in losses in the first half of 2014. Depending on the victim, the attacks are believed to
have begun between December 2013 and June 2014. According to Kaspersky Labs, each victim
bank lost $2.5 million to $10 million to the campaign. The victim financial institutions were
located in Russia, the United States, Germany, China and Ukraine; additionally, the group may
also have begun targeting organizations in Malaysia, Nepal, and Kuwait. The vast majority of
victims (at least 52) are located in Russia. Overall, the group targeted at least 100 financial
organizations at 300 IP addresses located in approximately 30 countries. Of the ~100
organizations targeted, Kaspersky believes that at least half suffered financial loss.
44
The Carbanak group is particularly significant because it demonstrates how the
dangerous escalation of sophisticated cyber exploit kits, perpetuated by state sponsored groups
and government agencies, has guided the development of complex and demonstratively
effective criminal platforms that can financially harm private organizations and individuals alike.
Consider that the Carbanak group stole an estimated $1 billion in less than 6 months. The loss
to the global financial institutions, though meager compared to the entire global economy, can
still lead to cascading global economic impacts within and outside the victim organizations.
Like most APT groups, Carbanak attacks began with a spear phishing campaign. The
malicious emails appeared as legitimate banking communique accompanied by attached
Microsoft Word (97-2003) documents and Control Panel Applet (.CPL) files. The attachments
infected victim systems with malware and with a backdoor based on the Carberp malware. It is
also possible that some of the emails contained urls that redirected the victim to a landing page
that delivered the malware in the background before forwarding the user to a familiar financial
site. Analyzed malicious attachments reveal that the attackers exploited vulnerabilities in
Microsoft Word 2003, 2007, and 2010 (CVE-2012-0158, and CVE-2014-1761). After successful
exploitation of a vulnerability, the shellcode decrypts and the Carbanak backdoor is installed on
the victim host. The Carbanak backdoor installs and then it re-installs itself into
“%system32%\com” as a copy of “svhost.exe” with the system, hidden, and read-only
attributes. The initial version (delivered by the exploit) is then deleted. After installation, the
backdoor connects to its C2 server through HTTP (with RC2+Base64 encryption) and downloads
a file (kldconfig.plug) which details which process to monitor. The kit sets the Termservice
service execution mode to auto to enable Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). The backdoor
provided access to the intranet of the victim organization. Next, the adversary probed the
intranet for other vulnerable targets and specifically for critical financial systems. Typically, tens
to hundreds of computers were infected before an admin system, with the necessary access,
was compromised. If banking applications such as BLIZKO or IFOBS are discovered, then a
special notification is sent to the C2 server to notify the adversary that financial systems were
discovered.
Once the attackers discovered financial systems on the victim network, they deployed
keyloggers, tools to hijack video capture, and screen capture tools to learn as much information
as possible about the environment. The Carbanak tool kit typically logs keystrokes and takes
screenshots every 20 seconds. The monitoring occurs by intercepting the ResumeThread call.
The captured videos are recorded at low bandwidth and are used to help the attackers develop
an operational picture of typical workflow, tool usage, and practices. In addition to training the
adversary to transfer money, the monitoring also reduces the likelihood that the adversary will
set off behavioral analytic systems. The remote administration tool, Ammyy Admin, might also
45
be installed on victim systems to ease remote access (the tool is whitelisted by legitimate
system administrators in some corporate environments).
Attackers studied the financial tools and applications installed on the victim hosts in
order to maximize the potential gain from the compromised system. Rather than searching for
exploits and flaws in the security and financial applications, the adversary meticulously
recorded the activity of administrators in order to learn the necessary information and
procedures to transfer money. Files on captured C2 servers indicate that the adversary may
also exfiltrate classified emails, manuals, cryptographic keys, and other information. When the
adversary knew the necessary information and knew how to use the most powerful host
applications, they would withdraw or transfer significant sums. The method of withdraw or
transfer depended on the system, situation, and available resources (time, people, etc.).
Observed methods of stealing cash include fraudulent online banking transfers, electronic cash
transfers to banks in China and the United States, SWIFT transfers to compromised bank
accounts, and remote commands to ATMs to spew cash onto the street at a specific date and
time. In the instances where physical interaction with an ATM or bank personnel was
necessary, the group would pay individuals to act as “mules” in the cash transfer.
The command and control infrastructure rotates every few weeks. It consists of Linux
servers to issue commands, Windows servers used for remote connections, backup servers, and
drop servers containing executables and additional components. Victim systems are catalogued
in server logs according to the adversary’s categorization.