Attribution Remains Unclear
Several temporal and anecdotal indicators exist which suggest that this activity aligns
with reported campaigns by the threat actor TA445/UNC1151/Ghostwriter. However,
Proofpoint has not yet observed concrete technical overlaps which would allow us to
definitively attribute this campaign to this actor. In addition to the notable overlaps with
Ukrainian government reported campaigns referenced previously, the victimology of this
campaign with prominent NATO governments being targeted and a possible focus on the
movements of refugees in NATO countries recalls historic motivations of TA445’s
information operations circa 2021. Specifically, the anti-migratory narratives
disseminated by the group also referred to as Ghostwriter during the 2021 migratory
crisis in which Belarus intentionally funneled refugees to the Polish border belies a
possible connection between this 2022 campaign and TA445’s historic mandate. Mainly
both campaigns may indicate the weaponization of migrants and refugees of war through
a hybrid information warfare and targeted cyber-attack model. Researchers at Mandiant
addressed these tactics by UNC1151’s information operation team referred to as
Ghostwriter (collectively TA445) in a recent presentation (12:17 time stamp), disclosing
the existence of the group and attributing the activity to Belarus. Proofpoint also notes
that, in addition to the Asylum Ambuscade operation, in recent days researchers have
detected TA445 credential harvesting activity that aligns with Mandiant’s description of
this threat group to include the use of GoPhish to deliver malicious email content. This
activity appears distinct from the Asylum Ambuscade campaign. Proofpoint is currently
tracking the actor responsible for Asylum Ambuscade as distinct from TA445 until a
technical relationship can be further established.
Tactic Asylum Ambuscade
Campaign
Document Attachment Phishing
Focus on Refugee Issues and NATO
TA445
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/blog/threat-insight/asylum-ambuscade-state-actor-uses-compromised-private-ukrainian-military-emails 12/18
4/27/22, 4:16 PM Asylum Ambuscade: State Actor Uses Compromised Private Ukrainian Military Emails to Target European Governments and Refugee Mo…
Use of Macro Enabled Documents
Use of GoPhish
Use of MSI Packages
Use of Lua Based Malware
Use of Compromised Sender
Infrastructure
Figure 9. Comparison of Asylum Ambuscade campaign and TA445 TTPs.
While Proofpoint has not definitively determined attribution at this time, researchers
assess with moderate confidence that this campaign and a historic campaign from July
2021 were conducted by the same threat actor. The July 2021 campaign utilized a highly
similar macro-laden XLS attachment to deliver MSI packages that install a Lua malware
script. Similarly, the campaign utilized a very recent government report as the basis of the
social engineering content and titled the malicious attachment “list of participants of the
briefing.xls.” In addition to the file name being quite similar to the Asylum Ambuscade
campaign, the Lua script created a nearly identical URI beacon to the SunSeed sample,
which was composed of the infected victim’s C Drive partition serial number. Analysis of
the cryptography calls in both samples revealed that the same version of WiX 3.11.0.1528
had been utilized to create the MSI packages. Finally, the macros in this historic
campaign utilized the identical technique as the Asylum Ambuscade campaign, using
Windows Installer to retrieve an MSI package from an actor-controlled IP resource and
suppressing indications of installation from the user. The July 2021 campaign targeted
senior cyber security practitioners and decisionmakers at private US-based companies,
including those in the defense sector.
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/blog/threat-insight/asylum-ambuscade-state-actor-uses-compromised-private-ukrainian-military-emails 13/18
4/27/22, 4:16 PM Asylum Ambuscade: State Actor Uses Compromised Private Ukrainian Military Emails to Target European Governments and Refugee Mo…
Figure 10. Historic malicious macro seen in July 2021.