Credential Hopping
The majority of StellarParticle-related investigations conducted by CrowdStrike have started
with the identification of adversary actions within a victim’s O365 environment. This has been
advantageous to CrowdStrike incident responders in that, through investigating victim O365
environments, they could gain an accurate accounting of time, account and source IP address
of adversary victimization of the O365 tenant. In multiple engagements, this led CrowdStrike
incident responders to identify that the malicious authentications into victim O365 tenants had
originated from within the victim’s own network.
Armed with this information, CrowdStrike investigators were able to identify from which
systems in these internal networks the threat actor was making authentications to O365.
These authentications would typically occur from servers in the environment, leading to
natural investigative questions: Why would a user authenticate into O365 from a domain
controller or other infrastructure server? What credentials were used as part of the session
from which the O365 authentication occurred?
This led our responders to identify the occurrence of “credential hopping,” where the threat
actor leveraged different credentials for each step while moving laterally through the victim’s
network. While this particular technique is not necessarily unique to the StellarParticle
campaign, it indicates a more advanced threat actor and may go unnoticed by a victim.
Below is an example of how a threat actor performs credential hopping:
Gain access to the victim’s network by logging into a public-facing system via Secure
Shell (SSH) using a local account  acquired during previous credential theft
activities.
Use port forwarding capabilities built into SSH on the public-facing system to establish a
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) session to an internal server (Server 1) using a domain
service account.
From Server 1, establish another RDP session to a different internal server (Server 2)
using a domain administrator’s account.
Log in to O365 as a user with privileged access to cloud resources.
2/21
Figure 1. Example of “credential hopping” technique
This technique could be hard to identify in environments where defenders have little visibility
into identity usage. In the example shown in Figure 1, the threat actor leveraged a service
interactively, which should generate detections for defenders to investigate. However, the
threat actor could have easily used a second domain administrator account or any other
combination of accounts that would not be easily detected. A solution such as CrowdStrike
Falcon® Identity Threat Detection would help identify these anomalous logons — and
especially infrequent destinations for accounts. (Read how CrowdStrike incident responders
leverage the module in investigations in this blog: Credentials, Authentications and Hygiene:
Supercharging Incident Response with Falcon Identity Threat Detection.)
But how had the threat actor succeeded in authenticating into victim O365 tenants, when
multifactor authentication (MFA) had been enabled for every O365 user account at each victim
organization investigated by CrowdStrike?