Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud
microsoft.com /security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud
September 24, 2020
Microsoft consistently tracks the most advanced threat actors and evolving attack
techniques. We use these findings to harden our products and platform and share them
with the security community to help defenders everywhere better protect the planet.
Recently, the Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC) observed the evolution of
attacker techniques by an actor we call GADOLINIUM using cloud services and open
source tools to enhance weaponization of their malware payload, attempt to gain
command and control all the way to the server, and to obfuscate detection. These attacks
were delivered via spear-phishing emails with malicious attachments and detected and
blocked by Microsoft Defender, formerly Microsoft Threat Protection (MTP), and able to
be detected using Azure Sentinel.
As these attacks were detected, Microsoft took proactive steps to prevent attackers from
using our cloud infrastructure to execute their attacks and suspended 18 Azure Active
Directory applications that we determined to be part of their malicious command &
control infrastructure. This action helped transparently protect our customers without
requiring additional work on their end.
GADOLINIUM is a nation-state activity group that has been compromising targets for
nearly a decade with a worldwide focus on the maritime and health industries. As with
most threat groups, GADOLINIUM tracks the tools and techniques of security
practitioners looking for new techniques they can use or modify to create new exploit
methods.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/09/24/gadolinium-detecting-empires-cloud/ 1/9
9/25/2020 Microsoft Security—detecting empires in the cloud - Microsoft Security
Recently, MSTIC has observed newly expanded targeting outside of those sectors to
include the Asia Pacific region and other targets in higher education and regional
government organizations. As GADOLINIUM has evolved, MSTIC has continued to
monitor its activity and work alongside our product security teams to implement
customer protections against these attacks.
Historically, GADOLINIUM used custom-crafted malware families that analysts can
identify and defend against. In response, over the last year GADOLINIUM has begun to
modify portions of its toolchain to use open-source toolkits to obfuscate their activity and
make it more difficult for analysts to track. Because cloud services frequently offer a free
trial or one-time payment (PayGo) account offerings, malicious actors have found ways to
take advantage of these legitimate business offerings. By establishing free or PayGo
accounts, they can use cloud-based technology to create a malicious infrastructure that
can be established quickly then taken down before detection or given up at little cost.
The following GADOLINIUM technique profile is designed to give security practitioners
who may be targeted by this specific actor’s activity insight and information that will help
them better protect from these attacks.