Deterrence and Computer Network Operations
The Chinese government has not definitively stated what types of CNA actions
it considers to be an act of war which may reflect nothing more than a desire to
hold this information close to preserve strategic flexibility in a crisis. With the
exception of the Taiwan independence issue, the PRC leadership generally avoids
defining specific “red lines” for the use force; this is likely true for its CNA capabilities.
Effective deterrence requires capable and credible force with clear
determination to employ it if necessary and a means of communicating this
intent with the potential adversary, according to the S cience of Military
Strategy . [33]

The Science of Military Strategy also stresses that deterrent measures can
include fighting a small war to avoid a much larger conflict. Tools like CNA and
EW, which are perceived to be “bloodless” by many PLA IW operators, may
become first choice weapons for a limited strike against adversary targets to
deter further escalation of a crisis. [ 34] This concept may also have implications
for PRC leadership willingness to use IW weapons preemptively if they believe
that information-based attacks don’t cross an adversary’s “red lines”.

The PLA may also use IW to target enemy decisionmaking by attacking information
systems with deceptive information to shape perceptions or beliefs. The Science of
Military Strategy highlights this as a key contribution that IW can make in support of
the overall campaign. Data manipulation or destruction may be perceived as a
valuable tool to aid broader strategic psychological or deception operations or to
support perception management objectives as part of a deterrence message.
A 2003 article by the Deputy Commander of Guangzhou Military Region,
entitled “Information Attack and Information Defense in Joint Campaigns,"
32 “China Establishes New Military Schools,” People’s Daily, 7 March 1999, available at:
http://english.peopledaily.com.cn/english/199907/03/enc_19990703001001_TopNews.html
33 The Science of Military Strategy, p 213-215.
34 The Science of Military Strategy, p 213-215 | OSC, CPP20000517000168, “Excerpt from “World
War, The Third World War--Total Information Warfare,” Xinhua Publishing House, 1 January, 2000.
19
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
published in an AMS journal, noted that information attack requires targeting
both an enemy’s information systems and “cognition and belief system.” The
primary techniques for attacking information systems, he argues, are network
and electronic attack and the primary techniques for attacking people's
cognition and belief system are information deception and psychological
attack, which will also be implemented by CNO units. [35]
AMS guidance on the formation of IW militia units directed that they include
psychological operations elements to support perception management and
deception operations against an enemy.
Some PLA advocates of CNO perceive it as a strategic deterrent comparable to
nuclear weapons but possessing greater precision, leaving far fewer
casualties, and possessing longer range than any weapon in the PLA’s arsenal.
China’s development of a credible computer network attack capability is one
component of a larger effort to expand and strengthen its repertoire of strategic
deterrence options that includes new nuclear capable missiles, anti-satellite
weapons, and laser weapons.
Major General Li Deyi, the deputy chair of the Department of Warfare Theory
and Strategic Research at the Academy of Military Sciences, noted in 2007
that information deterrence is rising to a strategic level and will achieve a level
of importance second only to nuclear deterrence. [36]
China has developed a more accurate, road mobile ICBM, the DF-31A that
can range the continental United States and a submarine launched variant, the
JL-2 that will eventually be deployed on China’s new Jin-class nuclear
powered submarine. [ 37]
In 2007, China successfully tested a direct ascent ASAT weapon that used a
kinetic kill vehicle to destroy an aging Chinese weather satellite [38] and in 2006,
the US military accused the Chinese of using a laser dazzling weapon that
temporarily blinded a reconnaissance satellite. [39]
35 OSC, CPP20080314623007, “JSXS: Information Attack and Information Defense in Joint
Campaigns,” Beijing Junshi Xueshu [Military Art Journal] 1 October 2003.
36 OSC, CPP20081028682007, Li Deyi, “A Study of the Basic Characteristics of the Modes of
Thinking in Informatized Warfare,” China Military Science, Summer 2007, p.101-105.
37 Annual Report to Congress: Military Power of the People’s Republic of China 2006, US
Department of Defense, p. 3.
38 Annual Report to Congress: Military Power of the People’s Republic of China 2009, US
Department of Defense, p. 14.
39 Warren Ferster and Colin Clark, “NRO Confirms Chinese Laser Test Illuminated U.S.
Spacecraft,” Space News Business Report, 3 October 2006, available at:
http://www.space.com/spacenews/archive06/chinalaser_1002.html
20
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Chinese researchers are working on a variety of radio frequency weapons with
the potential to target satellites and other components of the US C4ISR
architecture, according to US Department of Defense analysis. [40]