Afliate programs fi
Affiliate programs are the easiest and least expensive
method of getting involved in cybercrime activities. The
idea behind an affiliate program is that the organizers
provide their “affiliates” with almost all the tools they need
to commit a crime. The task of the “affiliates” is to
generate as many successful malware infections as
possible. In return, the owner or owners of the affiliate
program share the income received as a result of these
infections with the affiliates. Depending on the type of
fraudulent scheme this could be a share of:
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 11/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
The sums stolen from the accounts of Internet banking
users;
The money paid by the user as a ransom when
cybercriminals use ransomware Trojans;
The money stolen from the “prepaid” accounts of
mobile device users by sending out SMS messages to
premium mobile numbers with the help of a malicious
program.
Creating and supporting an affiliate program for the
purpose of stealing money is a cybercrime committed, as
a rule, by a group of users. However, such projects are
often carried out by large organized groups whose activity
is analyzed later in this document.
This advertisement announces the launch of the beta testing of an
affiliate program used to distribute encrypting ransomware. Judging
by its characteristics, the group’s activity is focused on companies
located in the US and the UK. This is indicated by the comment
saying that the malware distributed via the partner network is able to
encrypt files with 80 different extensions, many of which are files of
applications used in companies. The text on requirements for
candidates to participate in testing includes a demonstration of the
presence of traffic or downloads from the United States and the
United Kingdom.
According to Kaspersky Lab experts, affiliate programs
are becoming less popular with Russian­language
cybercriminals. The main driver of their popularity had
been fraudulent schemes used to infect users’ mobile
devices with malicious programs which then sent out SMS
messages to premium numbers. However, in the spring of
2014, the Russian regulator introduced new requirements
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 12/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
for the organization of such services, which included a
need to secure additional confirmation of subscription to a
particular paid mobile service. This change was
instrumental in reducing the number of malicious mobile
partner programs to practically zero. Nevertheless, this
type of joint cybercriminal activity is still used by groups
specializing in the distribution of encrypting ransomware.