2.1  Methodology
The core of the methodology employed in the Shadows in the Cloud investigation rests at the nexus of technical
interrogation, field investigation, data analysis, and geopolitical, contextual research (See Box 2, page 3). No one
method alone is capable of providing a comprehensive understanding of malware networks; it is through their
combination that a complete picture is derived. For example, a technical analysis of exploits and malware used
by attackers alone can provide a great deal of insight into capabilities and targets. The command and control
servers used by the malware can be enumerated, and can sometimes reveal additional information that can be
used to identify those who have been compromised and data that may have been exfiltrated from these targets.
However, the technical analysis of exploits and malware samples alone only provides one crucial data set.
Field research is a critical, although sometimes neglected, component of malware research. While much of the
emphasis in existing malware research is focused on technical analysis of malware samples, this purely technical approach is unlikely to yield a complete picture. For example, through field research we have found compromised computers checking in with command and control servers that we have not seen in malware samples
distributed by the attackers. There is some evidence to suggest that attackers may migrate compromised hosts
to new command and control servers and/or command compromised computers to install new malware that is
not publicly disseminated through spear phishing and other targeted malware attacks. The field research component can thus provide an equally important insight into the attackers’ capabilities once the target’s network
is compromised, as well as updated command and control locations. Moreover, it allows for the investigation
of the context surrounding the the target and why the victims may have been targeted in the first place. Finally,
the wider geopolitical considerations, derived from both field investigations and contextual research, place the
collection of information in a broader context that supplies details around issues such as the timing of the attacks, the nature of the exploitation, including the use of any social engineering techniques, and potentially the
identity and motivation of the attackers.
We present our methodology in the following sequence – field investigation first, followed by technical investigations. However, in practice the two are iterative processes. In some circumstances, field investigations begin
first, followed by technical investigations, while in other cases the opposite is true. In this case, a technicalbased investigative technique (sinkhole analysis) is probably the closest to an actual starting point, although
even that method was informed by prior knowledge derived from field and contextual research reaching back
to the Tracking GhostNet report. In almost all circumstances, geopolitical and contextual research informs both
the technical and field research components. In practice, therefore, fusion methodology is a holistic, non-linear
approach, but one that takes place in a very structured and focused fashion.