Executive Summary
The United States and Iran continue to escalate tensions, most
recently accelerating rhetoric and actions in the Strait of Hormuz,
but also in the cyber domain. Over the past three months, Recorded
Future’s Insikt Group has observed an increase in APT33’s (also
known as Elfin) infrastructure building and targeting activity, and on
June 21, 2019, Yahoo! News reported that the U.S. Cyber Command
launched cyberattacks on an “Iranian spy group.”
Iranian state-sponsored threat actor APT33 has been conducting
cyberespionage activity since at least 2013, predominantly targeting
nations in the Middle East, but also notably targeting U.S., South
Korean, and European commercial entities across a wide variety of
sectors.
Insikt Group researchers used proprietary methods, including
Recorded Future Domain Analysis and Recorded Future Network
Traffic Analysis, along with other common analytical approaches, to
profile recently reported Iranian threat actor APT33’s domain and
hosting infrastructure in an effort to identify recent activity and
better understand the group’s tactics, techniques, and procedures
(TTPs).
Our research found that APT33, or a closely aligned threat actor,
continues to conduct and prepare for widespread cyberespionage
activity, with over 1,200 domains used since March 28, 2019 and
with a strong emphasis on using commodity malware. Commodity
malware is an attractive option for nation-state threat actors who
wish to conduct computer network operations at scale and hide in
plain sight among the noise of other threat actor activities, thus
hindering attribution efforts.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0626 | 1
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
The targeting of mainly Saudi Arabian organizations across a wide
variety of industries aligns with historical targeting patterns for
the group, which appear undeterred following previous exposés of
their activity. Western and Saudi — both public and private sector
— organizations in industries that have been historically targeted
by APT33 should be monitoring geopolitical developments and
increasing the scrutiny of operational security controls focusing
on detection and remediation of initial unauthorized access,
specifically from phishing campaigns, webshells, and third-party
(vendor and supplier) relationships. Additionally, real-time security
intelligence should be used to improve hunting in internal network
and host-based telemetry.