Key Judgments


Tsinghua IP 166.111.8[.]246 engaged in network reconnaissance targeting
organizations in Alaska, Kenya, Brazil, and Mongolia during times of economic
dialogue or publicity around China’s investment in foreign infrastructure projects
concerning China’s flagship Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).


The network reconnaissance activity against Alaskan organizations increased
following the governor of Alaska’s trade delegation trip to China in late May.


1 Tsinghua University is also romanized as Qinghua University.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-0816 | 1
Organizations targeted by the reconnaissance activity were in industries at the heart
of the trade discussions, such as oil and gas.


The targeting of German automotive multinational Daimler AG was observed a day
after it announced a profit warning in light of the growing U.S. and China trade
tensions.


The Tsinghua IP made at least one attempt to subscribe to a U.S.-based hotel’s
high-speed internet portal. We assess with low confidence that this may
demonstrate an intent to breach Nomadix internet gateways within the hospitality
sector running vulnerable WindWeb servers.


The Tsinghua IP repeatedly attempted to connect with a Tibetan network that was
compromised with a highly sophisticated backdoor, “ext4.”


“ext4” only allowed incoming TCP 443 connections to the compromised network
during a 180-second window every hour, with packets requiring a unique
combination of TCP header options to successfully connect. In over 20 observed
attempts, the Tsinghua IP did not transmit the correct TCP options to activate the
backdoor. This suggested:


The threat actors connecting from the Tsinghua IP were ill-informed of the
correct “ext4” backdoor connection sequence and were making mistakes.


The targeting of the Tibetan network is not associated with the presence of
the “ext4” backdoor and the network was being probed in line with wider
geopolitical and economic network reconnaissance activity being conducted
by the Tsinghua IP.



