APT15 expands its arsenal
During our analysis of the compromise, we identified new backdoors that now appear to be
part of APT15's toolset. The backdoor BS2005 - which has traditionally been used by the
group - now appears alongside the additional backdoors RoyalCli and RoyalDNS.
The RoyalCli backdoor appears to be an evolution of BS2005 and uses familiar encryption and
encoding routines. The name RoyalCli was chosen by us due to a debugging path left in the
binary:
c:\users\wizard\documents\visual studio 2010\Projects\RoyalCli\Release\RoyalCli.pdb
RoyalCli and BS2005 both communicate with the attacker's command and control (C2)
through Internet Explorer (IE) by using the COM interface IWebBrowser2. Due to the nature of
the technique, this results in C2 data being cached to disk by the IE process; we'll get to this
later.
Analysis of the domains and IP address infrastructure used by APT15 identified a number of
similar possible domains, shown at the bottom of the post. These appeared to be hosted on
either Linode or Google Cloud, with a preference for using the ASN AS63949.
All of the backdoors identified - excluding RoyalDNS - required APT15 to create batch scripts
in order to install its persistence mechanism. This was achieved through the use of a simple
Windows run key. We believe that APT15 could have employed this technique in order to
evade behavioural detection, rather than due to a lack of sophistication or development
capability.
Additional tools were recovered during the incident, including a network scanning/enumeration
tool, the archiving tool WinRAR and a bespoke Microsoft SharePoint enumeration and data
dumping tool, known as 'spwebmember'.
spwebmember was written in Microsoft .NET and includes hardcoded values for client project
names for data extraction. The tool would connect to the SQL SharePoint database and issue
a query to dump all data from the database to a temporary file affixed with 'spdata'. The group
also used keyloggers and their own .NET tool to enumerate folders and dump data from
Microsoft Exchange mailboxes.
APT15 was also observed using Mimikatz to dump credentials and generate Kerberos golden
tickets. This allowed the group to persist in the victim's network in the event of remediation
actions being undertaken, such as a password reset.