Summary of Microsoft and OpenAI’s findings and threat intelligence
The threat ecosystem over the last several years has revealed a consistent theme of
threat actors following trends in technology in parallel with their defender counterparts.
Threat actors, like defenders, are looking at AI, including LLMs, to enhance their
productivity and take advantage of accessible platforms that could advance their
objectives and attack techniques. Cybercrime groups, nation-state threat actors, and
other adversaries are exploring and testing different AI technologies as they emerge, in
an attempt to understand potential value to their operations and the security controls they
may need to circumvent. On the defender side, hardening these same security controls
from attacks and implementing equally sophisticated monitoring that anticipates and
blocks malicious activity is vital.
While different threat actors’ motives and complexity vary, they have common tasks to
perform in the course of targeting and attacks. These include reconnaissance, such as
learning about potential victims’ industries, locations, and relationships; help with coding,
including improving things like software scripts and malware development; and
assistance with learning and using native languages. Language support is a natural
feature of LLMs and is attractive for threat actors with continuous focus on social
engineering and other techniques relying on false, deceptive communications tailored to
their targets’ jobs, professional networks, and other relationships.
Importantly, our research with OpenAI has not identified significant attacks employing the
LLMs we monitor closely. At the same time, we feel this is important research to publish
to expose early-stage, incremental moves that we observe well-known threat actors
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/02/14/staying-ahead-of-threat-actors-in-the-age-of-ai/ 3/9
2/20/24, 2:27 PM Staying ahead of threat actors in the age of AI | Microsoft Security Blog
attempting, and share information on how we are blocking and countering them with the
defender community.
While attackers will remain interested in AI and probe technologies’ current capabilities
and security controls, it’s important to keep these risks in context. As always, hygiene
practices such as multifactor authentication (MFA) and Zero Trust defenses are essential
because attackers may use AI-based tools to improve their existing cyberattacks that rely
on social engineering and finding unsecured devices and accounts.
The threat actors profiled below are a sample of observed activity we believe best
represents the TTPs the industry will need to better track using MITRE ATT&CK®
framework or MITRE ATLAS™ knowledgebase updates.