Conclusion
World War Z told a story of idiosyncratic national behavior in response to a major international crisis.
This report sought to highlight the same phenomenon in regard to the challenges posed by national
cyber insecurity and international cyber attacks. Behind every incident is an agenda—and individual
human beings—each unique and ultimately identifiable. The bigger the cyber campaign, the more
data it generates for security researchers, and the more difficulty attackers will have remaining
anonymous and hiding their agenda.
As for crystal balls: no one knows what the next cyber attack will look like. But considering recent trends,
we can make a few educated guesses.
Here are five factors that could change the world’s cyber security landscape in the near- to medium-term:
1. Outage of national critical infrastructure: we know that cyber attacks can disrupt government
networks, but most current cases simply do not rise to the level of a national security threat. Stuxnet—
and Iran’s alleged retaliation against Saudi Aramco—has shifted the thinking on cyber war from
theory to something closer to reality. But have we seen the limit of what cyber attacks can achieve,
or could cybercriminals threaten public safety by downing a power grid or financial market?
2. Cyber arms treaty: if world leaders begin to view cyber attacks as more of a liability than an
opportunity, they may join a cyber arms control regime or sign a non-aggression pact for
cyberspace. However, arms control requires the ability to inspect for a prohibited item. President
Reagan’s favorite Russian proverb was доверяй, но проверяй, or “trust but verify.” Given that a single
USB stick can now hold billions of bits of information, verifying would be easier said than done.
3. PRISM, freedom of speech, and privacy: we are still at the dawn of the Internet era, and this
conversation has only just begun. It encompasses Daniel Ellsberg, Chelsea Manning, and Edward
Snowden, as well as the Declaration of Independence, Enigma, and The Onion Router (TOR). Today,
politicians, spooks, and hippies are all aware of a critical debate on the horizon—just how much
online privacy should we have?
4. New actors on the cyber stage: the revolutionary nature of computers and the amplification power
of networks are not exclusive to the world’s largest nations. Iran, Syria, North Korea, and even nonstate actors such as Anonymous have employed cyber attacks as a way to conduct diplomacy and
wage war by other means. Researchers have little reason to think that other governments are not
active in this domain. Possible candidates could be:
a. Poland: it was the Poles who first broke the German Enigma cipher—way back in 1932!
Today, with programming talent and well-known rivalry with Russia, it is a possibility.
b. Brazil: Home to some of the world’s most prolific cybercriminals, will Brazil’s government,
be angry about recent revelations of U.S. cyber spying, harness this talent for geopolitical ends?
c. Taiwan: with constant cyber attacks emanating from Mainland China, Taipei may have
little choice but to react.
5. Stronger focus on evasion: as we have seen, some nation-states know how to launch stealthy cyber
attacks. But as the discipline of cyber defense matures, and as public awareness of the World War C
phenomenon grows, some “noisy” cyber attackers such as China may be forced to raise their game
by trying to fly under a more finely tuned radar.
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 20
The analysis and conclusions drawn in this paper are conjectural. Cyber security, cyber espionage,
and cyber war are new and rapidly evolving concepts. Furthermore, most computer network
operations are shrouded in secrecy. Deception is a given.
“A cyber attack, viewed outside of its geopolitical context, allows very little legal maneuvering room
for the defending state,” said Prof. Thomas Wingfield of the Marshall Center, in a recent email interview
with FireEye. “False flag operations and the very nature of the Internet make tactical attribution a
losing game.”
But Wingfield adds that strategic attribution—fusing all sources of intelligence on a potential threat—
allows a much higher level of confidence and more options for government decision makers.
“And strategic attribution begins and ends with geopolitical analysis,” he said.
With this in mind, we hope that an awareness of this World War C dynamic helps cyber security
professionals better understand, identify, and combat cyber attacks in the future.
About FireEye
FireEye has invented a purpose-built, virtual machine-based security platform that provides real-time
threat protection to enterprises and governments worldwide against the next generation of cyber
attacks. These highly sophisticated cyber attacks easily circumvent traditional signature-based defenses,
such as next-generation firewalls, IPS, anti-virus, and gateways. The FireEye Threat Prevention Platform
provides real-time, dynamic threat protection without the use of signatures to protect an organization
across the primary threat vectors, including Web, email, and files and across the different stages of
an attack life cycle. The core of the FireEye platform is a virtual execution engine, complemented by
dynamic threat intelligence, to identify and block cyber attacks in real time. FireEye has over 1,100
customers across more than 40 countries, including over 100 of the Fortune 500.
For more information on next-generation threat protection, visit www.FireEye.com
© 2013 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of FireEye, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners. – RPT.WWC.EN-US.092013
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 21
FireEye, Inc . [|] 1440 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035 [|] 408.321.6300 [|] 877.FIREEYE (347.3393) [|] info@FireEye.com [|] www.FireEye.com