Attacks targeting Windows & Linux servers
While the vast majority of security incidents we responded to in 2020 involved desktop or laptop computers
running variations of Windows, we saw a steady increase in attacks on both Windows and non-Windows
servers. In general, servers have long been attractive attack targets for a variety of reasons: They often run
for long periods unattended or unmonitored; servers often carry more CPU and memory capacity than
individual laptops; and servers may occupy a privileged space on the network, often having access to the
most sensitive and valuable data in an organization’s operation. This makes them an attractive foothold for
a persistent attacker. These characteristics won’t change in 2021 and Sophos anticipates the volume of
attacks targeting servers will continue to increase.
The majority of attacks targeting servers fit one of three profiles – ransomware, cryptominers and data
exfiltration – each of which has a corresponding, distinct set of tactics and techniques the attackers
employ. Best practices for server admins is to avoid running conventional desktop apps, like email clients or
a web browser, from the server as a safeguard against infections, so attacks targeting servers necessarily
require a shift in tactics.
Internet-facing servers running Windows receive a never-ending barrage of RDP brute-forcing attempts, an
attack tactic that, for at least the past three years, has been most often associated with (and predictive of)
ransomware attacks. The Sophos Rapid Response team frequently finds that the root cause of ransomware
attacks it investigates involve an initial access to the target’s network by means of RDP, and then the use of
those machines to gain a foothold within the network and take control of DC servers, from which they can
mount the rest of the attack.
By contrast, cryptojacking attacks tend to target a wider range of vulnerabilities in Windows, and in
applications that normally run on server hardware, such as database software.
For instance, one method used by the Lemon_Duck cryptominer involves a brute-force attack against
internet-facing servers running Microsoft SQL Server. Once the attackers guess the correct database
password, they use the database itself to reassemble the cryptojacker payload, write it out to the server’s
file system, and execute it. The infected machine then attempts to exploit the EternalBlue and/or
SMBGhost vulnerabilities in a bid to spread the cryptojacker.
November 2020 10
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
Lemon_Duck is an equal-opportunity attacker, and can infect Linux servers. The malware attempts to
brute-force SSH passwords taken from a relatively small list. If successful, the attackers load malicious
shellcode, which then establishes persistence by taking advantage of loopholes in a service called Redis.
The cryptojacker can also conceal itself by executing the commands to start itself from within Hadoop
clusters.
Fig.3. One of the more prolific cryptojackers, called MyKings, distributed the components responsible for installing the botnet (highlighted in green) inside a Zip
archive along with several of the exploits leaked from the NSA by the Shadow Brokers. Source: SophosLabs.
Occasionally, attackers target servers because, rather than a quick payday or a steady trickle of
cryptocurrency, they want to steal data of value stored on them. In 2020, Sophos discovered an attacker
targeting Linux servers using malware we called Cloud Snooper. The servers in question were hosted in a
cloud computing cluster, and evaded detection by inventing a clever message-relay system, piggybacking
their command-and-control messages on routine HTTP connections.
Fig.4. A “wolf in sheep’s clothing” metaphor illustration of how the Cloud Snooper APT malware concealed its commands and exfiltrated data in the guise of
conventional HTTP requests and responses, with the help of a tool that monitored network traffic and rewrote TCP/IP packets in real time. Source: SophosLabs.
Server admins have not, historically, installed endpoint protection products on servers, but with the advent
of these types of attacks, that conventional wisdom has shifted.
November 2020 11
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT