IRAN’S EXTERNAL TARGETS
Given Iran’s inability to effectively challenge or deter better-prepared opponents, it has
employed opportunistic destructive attacks to demonstrate its ability to retaliate. Particularly in the Middle East, Tehran can implicitly threaten cyber operations against the
poorly defended economic and infrastructure resources of its opponents in the event of
hostilities. Indeed, the disclosure of targets and victims of Iran’s regional cyber operations
often include industries that appear to serve no other purpose than creating beachheads
in rival countries, such as banks and airports.
The intended effects of disruptive operations can vary, ranging from intimidation to
destruction for foreign targets, and from embarrassment to existential harm for domestic
opponents. The targeting or compromise of systems can alone be sufficient to communicate Tehran’s willingness and capability to inflict damage on opponents. This echoes Iran’s
occasional threat to close the Strait of Hormuz—through which nearly 60 percent of the
world’s oil supply passes on any given day—during times of crisis. Given the opacity of
the Iranian government, however, the intended messages and expectations being signaled
from Tehran can be easily misinterpreted, risking unintended conflict or escalation.
Such destructive attacks are rare, however, compared to Iran’s espionage campaigns
against foreign governmental and economic institutions. Increasingly these campaigns
form not only the basis of retaliation during conflict but also an essential crisis response
mechanism for handling emerging threats. For example, days after a September 2015
stampede killed over 450 Iranians attending the Hajj pilgrimage, domain names impersonating the Saudi government and Hajj Ministry were registered by known Iranian
29
threat actors. [73] As relations and communications rapidly deteriorated between the two
countries, particularly over the fate of a missing diplomat, cyber espionage became an
information gathering tool for Tehran.
Saudi Arabia aside, Denmark, Germany, Israel, and the United States are among the
countries that have publicly disclosed espionage attempts by Iranian groups against their
government, military, or scientific institutions. [74] Tehran also targets neighboring countries throughout the Middle East. Despite the various threat actors that operate on behalf
of the Iranian government, their behavior patterns—including whom they target—are
generally consistent over time.