35 Lazarus arisen: architecture, tools, attribution
Below is a list of available commands:
Commands from the C&C server Messages to the C&C server
Command Description
ustanavlivat to receive a network address
of the active Server2 server
from the C&C server (the
address will be sent in the next
package)
poluchit to send a network address of
the current Layer 2 server to
the C&C server
pereslat to forward data between the
C&C server and Server2
derzhat to keep the connection open
vykhodit to terminate the session
Command Description
Nachalo This message sent to the C&C
server or the proxy during
the start of the sample is the
start-up indicator
kliyent2podklyuchit a testing proxy performance
package
ssylka to connect to the С&C server
to forward traffic between the
C&C server and Server2
vykhodit notifying the C&C server of
session termination
By sending the "ssylka" message to the C&C server, the analyzed file can
make the C&C server keep the connection open for further traffic redirection
between the C&C server and Layer 1. The "ssylka" command is executed
in the event the "pereslat" command is received from the C&C server. This
means that the C&C server initiates the communication session by sending the
«pereslat» command and waits for the incoming connection from the program
(with the "ssylka" message) to further forward traffic between the C&C server
and Layer 1 (communications are possible in both directions). The sample
does not have a list of commands to forward traffic between the C&C server
and Server2, it just redirects data from the one socket to another, when two
connections are active.
One of the commands that can be received from the C&C server is
«ustanavlivat». In the event the program receives it, it performs an additional
request to the C&C server and receives a network address of the Server2
node, which will be further used as an end point to proxy network traffic.
The "kliyent2podklyuchit" message is intended to check the efficiency
of an intermediate proxy server, through which network connections
will be performed. If the target computer is specified in the command
line, the sample will connect to this host with an additional message
"kliyent2podklyuchit". The connection is performed using the functionality of
the statically linked library “libcurl”. In the event the connection is successful,
traffic from the C&C server will further go through the proxy. If not, the
application terminates its operation.