KINGSLAYER’S MEMORY-RESIDENT BROTHER, THE K2 TROJAN
RSA Research believes all of the particular Alpha application installations at­
tempting to update during the 17 day Kingslayer subversion window received a
malicious but otherwise functioning update. We do not know how many of them
also received the secondary malware. Using passive analysis, RSA Research was
able to identify the probable beaconing activity pattern used by the secondary
In the case of Kingslayer, this especially rings true because the specific sys­
tem-administrator-related systems most likely to be infected offer the ideal
beachhead and operational staging environment for systematic exploitation of
a large enterprise.
Subverting an application used almost exclusively by enterprise Windows
system administrators gives the perpetrators direct access to the most sensi­
tive parts on an organization’s network via a workstation or server used reg­
ularly by the “king of the network.” A system administrator’s workstation and
cache of credentials invariably provides the most access of any system on an
enterprise network. In our experience, the credentials maintained by system
Enterprise network administrators should take heed that they are perhaps
the most important and pivotal target for advanced threats interested in what
RSA NETWITNESS [®] ENDPOINT EDR TOOL
Compare this antivirus failure with RSA NetWitness [®] Endpoint, an Enterprise
Detection and Response (EDR) tool that is available to RSA customers and
is notably used by the RSA IR Team in their customer engagements. On a lab
Windows system, RSA Research recreated the Kingslayer backdoor installa­
tion, then deployed RSA NetWitness Endpoint. In Figure 5, we see that RSA
NetWitness Endpoint identified an instance of [FLOATING_CODE], revealing
that the backdoored “Service.exe” process established multiple connections.
[FLOATING_CODE] identifies a block of code present in a process private
executable address space, as opposed to a library properly loaded from disk.
Floating code is missing a normal DLL header. In otherwise, legitimate software
with a backdoor such as that employed by Kingslayer, the network connections
were established from that allocated block of code, which is suspicious.
In Figure 6, a threat hunter behind the RSA NetWitness Endpoint console dug
into the network details tab, to reveal the multiple connections to a suspicious
domain.