First stage malware (Dropper component – “Swisyn” part 1)
The first binary payload that lands on the system is relatively simple and serves as a method of yet
again detecting the operating system version and where to drop a secondary payload file. Whilst this
binary is not complicated by nature it has been designed to masquerade as a legitimate application
and contains functionality to evade anti-virus. This malware implant is commonly detected by anti
virus as Swisyn.
Upon running this malware determines the operating system version, but only delineating between
Windows XP, Visa and above.
It appears that this functionality is included because the secondary payload comes in both 32bit and
64bit versions.
Both of these second stage payloads are obfuscated but decoded with a simple bitwise operation as
per below
D r a g o n T h r e a t L a b s, H o n g K o n g Page 4
In this scenario, the secondary payloads can be decoded using a simple subtraction of 3 followed by
an XOR of 3 from each byte. This file is then written to %User%\Application Data\Microsoft in a
newly created folder name ‘wuauclt’. The filename depends on the operating system version, for
Windows XP it is “clbcatq.dll”, for Windows Vista and above it is “profapi.dll”. Once this file has
been written to disk a file from the Windows System32 folder is copied into the directory. This file,
named ‘wuauclt.exe’, is the Windows update client interface and it a standard windows file. By
executing this file in a specific manner it will load the freshly dropped DLL file – affectively this is
known as DLL hijacking.
Following this action another file, named ‘wuauclt.dat’, is written on to the disk under the same
directory. This file is encoded and not decoded at this stage of the attack. To complete the file drop
wuauclt.exe is executed.
The 64bit version of this dropper is vastly similar in functionality although it offers slightly more
efficiency in the code. The decoding routine is more simplified than its 32bit counterpart and the
decoding key is hardcoded
D r a g o n T h r e a t L a b s, H o n g K o n g Page 5
The following pseudo-code can decode both 32bit and 64bit versions of the DLL stored in
‘wuauclt.dat’
Not to dwell on a dropper, let’s move on to the second stage malware.