Framework B
Framework B is found on the vast majority of sites. Initial URLs for access to Framework B
are simply references to JavaScript (.js) files on OceanLotus controlled sites. Volexity has
found that the URLs from Framework B do not actually matter, so long as the file extension
ends in .js and a referrer is sent with the request. The JavaScript will be sent back regardless
of the file or folder requested as long as it meets these two criteria.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
This request contains two pieces of information: a history section and a navigator section.
The history section contains information about the compromised site that the JavaScript
was loaded from. It also contains certain information about the host including the User
Agent, time and timezone, and IP addresses.
The navigator section is blank the first time the request is made. When the script is first run,
it records the current time in another localStorage variable. It only populates the
navigator section if 24 hours have passed. It will also update the stored timestamp. This
means the large section of data in the navigator section is only sent once per day, even if
this compromised site is visited multiple times. This section includes a lot of the same
information collected by Framework A, including MIME Types, plugins, and screen
information. Below are a few portions of the data collected and sent back to the OceanLotus
servers.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Framework B, Script 2 – Popup for Whitelisted Systems
As mentioned above, if a system is not on the whitelist, the GET
/api//adFeedback.js request will just return a timestamp
variable. For a whitelisted system, a new script is delivered. A portion of this script shown
below makes a request to download some additional config data.
The domain for the request is loaded from the SAPIS_ID cookie which was set by the first
script. Before storing, it is split in two, the two substrings are reversed, then it is base64
encoded. An example of the SAPIS_ID cookie can be seen in the navigator section
above. This ultimately calls the e.fn_getjson() function that makes a request like the
following:
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL