Notable Activity
resources such as their RSS feed, images in the webshells, and a Firefox
custom SEANux homepage. It is possible for DEADEYE JACKAL to monitor
to see who is connecting to these resources, but outside of that, the
operating system functions normally.
FRATERNAL JACKAL
In 2012 and 2013, a four-phased attack known as Operation Ababil, or
OpAbabil, was conducted by a group of Iranian actors targeting U.S. financial
institutions with DDoS attacks.
This adversary, which CrowdStrike tracks under the name FRATERNAL
JACKAL, has been suspected of having ties to the Iranian government. It
has been known to increase attack volume during periods of economic
tension between Iran and western countries. Despite suspicion of political
motivations, the group has publicly attested in several Pastebin.com posts
that the motivation for these attacks are negative depictions of the Muslim
Prophet Muhammad in several YouTube videos.
Attacks from this adversary group have been primarily conducted using
a botnet of public-facing web servers that have been exploited through
vulnerable Content Management Systems (CMS). Unlike traditional botnets
in which infected hosts connect to control servers for tasking, within
FRATERNAL JACKAL’s botnet, nodes are directly tasked by the adversary
through multiple layers of infrastructure.
CrowdStrike Intelligence continued to actively investigate this adversary
during 2014, specifically seeking means by which it propagated its botnet.
In October, a PHP script was identified in connection with this adversary.
This script is used for scanning lists of domains by parsing each domain’s
robots.txt file to identify any server running the CMS Joomla. Domains
identified from this script are directly posted to a hard-coded control server,
something not seen previously by CrowdStrike with this adversary’s toolkit.
Normally, performing server reconnaissance by parsing the robots.txt file
of a server is a trivial task. However, when looked at in the context of this
adversary’s strategic operations, it suggests that the adversary is not only
33