prologue пролог
If the names Turla, Sofacy, and APT29 strike fear into your heart, you are not alone. These are
known to be some of the most advanced, sophisticated and notorious APT groups out there – and
not in vain. These Russian-attributed actors are part of a bigger picture in which Russia is one of
the strongest powers in the cyber warfare today. Their advanced tools, unique approaches, and
solid infrastructures suggest enormous and complicated operations that involve different military
and government entities inside Russia.
Russia is known to conduct a wide range of cyber espionage and sabotage operations for the last
three decades. Beginning with the first publicly known attacks by Moonlight Maze, in 1996, going
through the Pentagon breach in 2008, Blacking out Kyiv in 2016, Hacking the US Elections in
2016, and up to some of the largest most infamous cyberattacks in history – targeting a whole
country with NotPetya ransomware.
Indeed, numerous Russian operations and malware families were publicly exposed by different
security vendors and intelligence organizations such as the FBI and the Estonian Foreign
Intelligence Services. While all of these shed light on specific Russian actors or operations, the
bigger picture remains hazy.
https://research.checkpoint.com/russianaptecosystem/ 1/14
10/1/2019 Mapping the connections inside Russia's APT Ecosystem - Check Point Research
The fog behind these complicated operations made us realize that while we know a lot about
single actors, we are short of seeing a whole ecosystem with actor interaction (or lack thereof)
and particular TTPs that can be viewed in a larger scope. We decided to know more and to look
at things from a broader perspective. This led us to gather, classify and analyze thousands of
Russian APT malware samples in order to find connections – not only between samples but also
between different families and actors.
During this research, we analyzed approximately 2,000 samples that were attributed to Russia
and found 22,000 connections between the samples and 3.85 million non-unique pieces of code
that were shared. We classified these samples into 60 families and 200 different modules.