NEW PHASE IN CYBERWAR:
Internet destabilization attacks
May 5, 2019, Palestine. According
to Israeli sources, on May 4, 2019,
hackers from the militant group Hamas
tried to carry out a cyberattack. Israel
declined to reveal the incident details.
To counter the attack, the Israel Defense
Forces launched an airstrike on a building
in the Gaza Strip, where the hackers
headquarters is believed to have been
located.
June 2019, Iran. On June
20, 2019, Iran's Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps (IRGC) shot down
a US drone. The US retaliated a few
days later by launching a cyberattack
on IRGC's missile control systems. Such
an attack requires months of preparation,
which suggests that the systems had
been compromised prior to that.
Disruption of Internet infrastructures,
which nearly all government and private
organizations depend on, is becoming
a dangerous attack vector. The sections
below look at scenarios that have
already been tested and could be used
on a larger scale at government level
in the next year.
Incident in Iran has once again
confirmed the suggestion
that the critical infrastructure
of many countries has already been
compromised, but attackers remain
unnoticed until they act.
In 2019, cybersecurity became a heavily
debated topic in politics. The activities
of cyber armies and the rhetoric
of political leaders around cyberattacks
continue to gain momentum.
March 2019, Venezuela. Sabotage
at the Simón Bolívar Hydroelectric Plant,
also known as the Guri Dam, resulted
in a mass-scale blackout in Caracas
and 22 of all 23 states in the country.
According to TASS, a news agency, the
country’s Communications Minister said
there had been “a cyberattack against
the automated control system”. The
plant was shut down in response to the
attack. Unlike other well-known attacks
on energy companies, this is the first time
that a large part of a country was left
without electricity for several days.
All these cases show that cyberspace
is becoming a battlefield. This trend could
lead to new cyberattacks on military and
government systems in order to disrupt
their work, cause social and economic
damage, and destabilize countries.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 17
DNS HIJACKING AND ATTACKS ON DOMAIN NAME REGISTRARS
The DNS protocol underpins the World
Wide Web and hackers who gain control
over it can be extremely dangerous.
Moreover, carrying out operations using
this protocol does not require having
access to DNS servers.
There are two possible scenarios when
purchasing a domain name:


either the domain registrar
provides DNS server services;


or the registrar provides a domain
name only, with DNS servers being
run by a different provider.


In either scenario, each customer can
specify the following information in their
personal account on the domain name
registrar’s website:


what DNS servers will be responsible
for a particular domain name;


what IP addresses the traffic will
be sent to when there is a request
to access the resources related


to this domain name.
This means that by compromising
a particular domain name registrar,
threat actors can manipulate all domains
registered through that registrar. The
situation is made worse by the fact
that countries usually have only a few
major registrars, which service both
government and private organizations.
Simultaneously hacking several
main registrars will paralyze website,
mail, and DNS servers, as well as all
services connected to them, for most
of the country. If such an attack were
to be conducted in combination with
sabotage activities, restoring the
registrar’s stability and recovering their
configuration would be impossible. The
resulting situation would damage all
industries without exception.
In addition to individual registrars,
attackers could target organizations
that manage country code top-level
domains. Almost every country has this
type of organization. For instance, the
Singapore Network Information Centre
(SGNIC) Pte Ltd is responsible for
Singapore’s domain zone .sg.
Domain name registrars and
organizations responsible for root
domain services have become a new
priority for threat actors. Information
security experts detected several such
incidents in 2019.
The attacks described above
were successful and targeted
individual organizations in both
the government and private
sectors. If threat actors become
set on disrupting national
infrastructures, attacks like these will
have much wider consequences.
[1] https://www.netnod.se/news/statement-on-man-in-the-middle-attack-against-netnod
[2] https://www.zdnet.com/article/hackers-breached-greeces-top-level-domain-registrar
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 18
BGP HIJACKING AND ATTACKS ON INTERNET ROUTING SYSTEMS
Another fundamental routing protocol
is BGP (Border Gateway Protocol).
The idea behind BGP hijacking
is to redirect the network traffic
of certain prefixes of an autonomous
system (IP address pools) through the
threat actor’s equipment. The most
common objective of such attacks
is cyberespionage.
However, network routes can also
be manipulated to disrupt major
telecommunications companies. There
have been many major, publicly shared
incidents (although they were a result
of either human error or misconfiguration
rather than targeted attacks).
NOVEMBER 25, 2018
Krek Ltd, a small-scale Russian
operator, made a mistake in its BGP
configuration, causing 10-20% of
Russian Internet users to lose access
to thousands of services. The failure
lasted for more than an hour and
affected major companies such as
Amazon, YouTube, VK (Russian social
network), ivi.ru (online video streaming
service), and many others. [[1]]
NOVEMBER 2018
MainOne, a Nigerian Internet service
provider, made a configuration mistake
and changed routes in such a way that
traffic to Google services was directed
through China, where it was getting
dropped. A total of 180 prefixes were
affected. It took 74 minutes to fix the
issue after it was detected. During this
time, some Google users experienced
access problems. [[2]]
JUNE 6, 2019
the Swiss company Safe Host (AS21217)
caused a leak of 70,000 routes to
China Telecom (AS4134). The most
heavily affected were Swisscom
(AS3303) based in Switzerland, KPN
(AS1136) based in the Netherlands,
and Bouygues Telecom (AS5410) and
Numericable-SFR (AS21502) based
in France. The incident lasted for two
hours. [[3]]
Another noteworthy example is a 2019
experiment, the aim of which was
to analyze new BGP security features.
It culminated in the failure of routers
of Internet service providers in Asia and
Australia.
BGP ROV
The new BGP Route Origin Validation
(ROV) standard is now part of the
BGP protocol security package,
along with BGP Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI) and BGP Path
Validation (BGPsec). BGP ROV allows
routers to use BGP RPKI information
to filter out unauthorized route
advertisements and prevent BGP
from being intercepted by attackers
intending to redirect traffic from
legitimate servers to malicious ones.
Experts say the problem was that the
BGP attribute they used caused a
crash in the software of the routers
based on FRRouting (FRR)—a set of IP
protocols for Linux and Unix.
The cases described above show
that manipulating traffic does not
require access to the targeted
company’s network hardware. Access
to an area border router is enough
to be able to change the BGP
configuration.
So far, BGP hijacking has had large-scale
but short-term effects. For prolonged
sabotage, threat actors will need to have
both access to the network routers
of several operators as well as preprepared scenarios for manipulating
traffic. In such cases, BGP hijacking could
cause significant network congestion
in some countries (similar to what
happens in energy company networks).
[1] https://radar.qrator.net/blog/no-filters-shoot-your-foot
[2] https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-a-nigerian-isp-knocked-google-offline/
[3] https://www.zdnet.com/article/for-two-hours-a-large-chunk-of-european-mobile-traffic-was-rerouted-through-china/
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 19
ATTACKS ON LOCAL SYSTEMS OF FILTERING
AND BLOCKING TRAFFIC
Some countries have implemented
or are creating filtering systems that
analyze and block certain user traffic.
Such technological solutions facilitate
attacks aimed at blocking the operation
of a network in a particular country.
The attacks summarized below have
been tested by threat actors and may
be conducted on a larger scale in the
future.
Blacklisted resources
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) block
access to harmful websites (terroristrelated, malicious, linked to drug
trafficking, etc.) based on blacklists. The
lists consist of domains, IP addresses, and
links. They are constantly updated so that
malicious resource owners cannot bypass
restrictions.
In cases where operators cannot
deploy DPI (Deep Packet Inspection)
systems, they must restrict traffic based
on IP addresses. Knowing this, attackers
leverage blacklisted domains to block
legitimate resources. Owners of banned
websites list the IP address of a legitimate
webpage in their DNS information, which
leads to providers blocking the legitimate
site. If a blacklisted domain name has
a new legitimate IP, it will automatically
be blocked by the provider.
Since 2017, attackers in Russia have used
this technique to bring down Wikipedia
as well as banking and government
resources. In March 2019, a similar
attack was carried out against the users
of Yandex, a Russian search engine.
This is an easy and cheap way to conduct
cyberattacks. Companies can protect
themselves by introducing a whitelist
of critical resources that must never
be blocked. However, blacklists are
distributed in a centralized manner.
If an attacker gains access to the server
distributing these lists, they will be able
to add any subnet to it.
Traffic decryption
Usually, transmitted content
is encrypted, so some countries
require users to install governmentissued certificates. Once installed, the
certificate helps local government
agencies decrypt user traffic.
Such certificates are issued
by designated centers. Banning
certificates by browser and operating
system would affect all users who have
these certificates installed.
This happened to DarkMatter, a UAEbased cybersecurity company. Google
announced plans to ban root certificates
owned by DarkMatter from Chrome
and Android. Mozilla also announced
that its browser Firefox would not trust
certificates from DarkMatter. In August
2019, Google and Mozilla blocked
a Kazakh government–issued root
certificate used for intercepting traffic.
[1] https://www.netnod.se/news/statement-on-man-in-the-middle-attack-against-netnod
[2] https://www.zdnet.com/article/hackers-breached-greeces-top-level-domain-registrar
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 20