33% 16% 8%
Figure 10. SMS message
with malicious link
Hidden mining is becoming less popular. In early 2018, the share of mining
attacks reached 23 percent, but declined to 9 percent in Q4. In Q1 2019, cryp
tojacking accounted for only 7 percent of attacks. As mining becomes less
profitable, cybercriminals are forced to upgrade miners by extending their
capabilities to those of multifunctional Trojans. For example, a new Trojan
dubbed CookieMiner not only installs a hidden miner on a victim's computer,
but also steals credentials and payment card information.
Ransomware Trojans, on the contrary, are picking up steam: their share of in
fections has risen from 9 percent in Q4 2018 to 24 percent in Q1 2019. However,
attackers are now earning less money from "traditional" ransomware. This is
probably due to the educational efforts of cybersecurity experts urging users
not to pay a ransom for file recovery. Be that as it might, attackers keep in
venting new ways to manipulate users. CryptoMix hackers promised to donate
ransom payments to a children's charity. Another malicious attack hit users
who for whatever reason were not able to pay ransom in bitcoins. A new ver
sion of ransomware offers PayPal as a payment option. If users choose to pay
using PayPal, they are taken to a fake PayPal page. All credentials and pay
ment information entered on the fake page are then stolen by attackers, who
can withdraw money from victims' accounts or sell this data on the darkweb.
Social engineering
Social engineering remains a common method of malware distribution. In
March, the Positive Technologies Expert Security Center (PT ESC) detected
a mass email campaign distributing a text document regarding upcoming
presidential elections in Ukraine. The document contained a macro which
decoded a PowerShell Empire script hidden in metadata. The script was
used to download malware to the victim's computer.
Besides political events, industry conferences also serve as a subject of
phishing emails sent by attackers. Our experts discovered an invitation for
a scientific conference that contained an exploit for vulnerability CVE-2018-
0802 and remote control malware.
Another phishing trick is to ask victims to verify their account. Hackers sent
messages to the owners of popular Instagram profiles prompting them to
enter personal data and credentials in fake forms, putting all the submitted
data into the hands of the hackers. In yet another example, clients of TD Bank
received emails with the subject line "Confirm account status" pretending
to come from the bank. The emails contained the TrickBot banking Trojan.
In both cases, the malicious messages were sent from email addresses that
closely resembled genuine addresses of the companies.
Savvy Internet users know that one or more scrambled letters in an address
can be a warning sign indicating a phishing attack. But what if the domain
matches the legitimate one? Is it absolutely safe to open attachments from
such messages? As practice shows, this is not the case. In brand impersona
tion attacks, attackers often use compromised resources or vulnerabilities in
mail services to send malicious emails while posing as genuine companies. In
one case, hackers used an insecure SMTP server configuration to distribute
malware and impersonate DHL in a phishing campaign. Messages were sent
from support@dhl.com, which caused recipients to let their guard down.
10
In another sophisticated phishing attack, hackers used the SingPost name.
The attackers sent a malicious link to users' phones in messages allegedly
coming from the logistics services provider. Hackers managed to send mes
sages grouped in the same conversation history as SingPost's actual ones,
which made users less vigilant, just like in the case of DHL.
Hacking
Attackers exploit known and zero-day vulnerabilities in software for various
purposes. For example, ready-made exploits are often used to deliver hidden
miners to devices. In Q1 2019, hackers used security flaws in the clusters with
outdated Elasticsearch versions (CVE-2014-3120, CVE-2015-1427) and exploit-
ed vulnerabilities CVE-2019-6340 in the Drupal CMS and CVE-2019-5736 in
Docker containers. Attackers also seek escalation of privileges on a system,
since administrator rights give them a free hand to conduct malicious actions.
For example, a zero-day vulnerability in the WordPress Easy WP SMTP plugin
allowed attackers to create administrator accounts, modify SMTP options, and
redirect traffic. The flaw may be used to conduct brand impersonation attacks
against companies whose sites have been compromised. We have already
looked into an example of such an attack in the section on social engineering.
                                    -                                        [In another privilege escalation attack, hackers exploited two zero](https://security.googleblog.com/2019/03/disclosing-vulnerabilities-to-protect.html) day vulner

abilities at the same time—one in Google Chrome and the other in Windows 7.
Google experts discovered the attacks in late February.
Also in February, cybersecurity experts discovered vulnerabilities in WinRAR
that had existed in the program for around 19 years. Such flaws offer hackers
new opportunities for infecting victims with malware. In the first month since
the vulnerability was disclosed, experts have identified about a hundred ex-
ploits for the detected vulnerability. WinRAR is an ubiquitous compression
tool used by millions of people as well as major companies, making the vul
nerability immensely attractive for hackers. According to experts, the vulner
ability threatens 500 million users worldwide. The developers have already
fixed the bugs and released a new version of the software, but the threat
remains relevant as WinRAR does not have an automatic update mechanism.
Web attacks
The beginning of the year was marked by mass attacks by the MageCart
group famous for so-called web skimmers—scripts used to steal payment
card information from websites. We already discussed these attacks in the
Q4 2018 report. In January 2019, experts noted a new surge of MageCart
attacks. The attackers infected 277 e-commerce websites. They managed to
extend their reach by using supply chain attacks, in which a company is com
promised in order to attack another one. MageCart hackers injected skim
ming code into a JavaScript library used by Adverline, an online advertising
company. As a result, websites of the companies that published advertise
ments via Adverline were in turn infected. The Media Trust experts registered
a similar but larger attack. They discovered a malicious campaign compro-
mising tens of adtech vendors and threatening 49 high-profile websites.
When compromising websites, attackers are motivated by more than just
data theft. A website attack can be an effective way to draw attention to
a problem. Attackers often hit government websites following significant
events that have caused public outcry. After a terrorist attack in Pulwama on
February 14, hundreds of Pakistani websites were hacked.
i
~~Most severe~~
~~damage~~