Russian-Speaking Actors
1/8
The second quarter of 2017 has seen multiple incidents involving Russian-speaking
threat actors. Topping the list of ‘attention grabbers’ were the Sofacy and Turla threat
actors.
March and April started off with a bang, with the discovery of three zero-day exploits
being used in-the-wild by Sofacy and Turla: two of these targeted Microsoft Office’s
Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) and the third being a Microsoft Windows Local Privilege
Escalation (LPE). Sofacy was discovered utilizing both CVE-2017-0262 (an EPS
vulnerability) and CVE-2017-0263 (LPE) over the Easter holiday, targeting a swath of
users throughout Europe. Prior to this attack, Turla was also discovered using CVE2017-0261 (a different EPS vulnerability). Neither actor appeared to deviate from
their usual payload repertoire, with Sofacy dropping their typical GAMEFISH payload
and Turla utilizing what we refer to as ICEDCOFFEE (a.k.a. Shirime). Targeting for
these attacks was also directly within the normal wheelhouse for both actors,
focusing mainly on foreign ministries, governments, and other government-affiliated
organizations.
GReAT produced additional reports on Sofacy and Turla beyond those mentioned
above. In April, we notified customers of two new experimental macro techniques
utilized by Sofacy. These techniques, while not particularly sophisticated, caught our
attention as they had not been seen before in-the-wild. The first technique involved
using the built-in ‘certutil’ utility in Microsoft Windows to extract a hardcoded payload
within a macro. The second technique involved embedding Base64-encoded payloads
within the EXIF metadata of the malicious documents. While the targeting for this
new set of activity was again fairly standard, we discovered some noteworthy
targeting against a French political party member prior to the 2017 elections. Moving
into May and June, we wrote two additional reports of interest involving these two
actors: the first was an update on the long running “Mosquito Turla” campaign
showing the usage of fake Adobe Flash installers and continued targeting of foreign
Ministries. The other documented yet another update on Sofacy’s unique Delphi
payload we call ‘Zebrocy’.
June saw the massive outbreak of a piece of malware dubbed “ExPetr”. While initial
assessments presumed that this was yet another ransomware attack à la WannaCry, a
deeper assessment by GReAT places the initial intent as constituting an operation
destructive in nature. We were also able to confidently identify the initial distribution
of the malware, as well as indicate a low confidence assessment that the attacks may
share traits with the BlackEnergy actors.
2/8
Below is a summary of report titles produced for the Eastern European region only.
As stated above, if you would like to learn more about our threat intelligence
products or request more information on a specific report, please direct inquiries to
intelreports@kaspersky.com .

Sofacy Dabbling in New Macro Techniques
Sofacy Using Two Zero Days in Recent Targeted Attacks – early warning
Turla EPS Zero Day – early warning
Mosquito Turla Targets Foreign Affairs Globally
Update on Zebrocy Activity June 2017
ExPetr motivation and attribution – Early alert
BlackBox ATM attacks using SDC bus injection
