Real-Time Bidding Networks: How it works
We observed in Operation DeathClick that real-time ad bidding networks are being used by criminal
enterprise to target companies with malicious content in order to gain persistent remote access. In
these third-party arrangements, the content is frequently not vetted because billions of impressions are
rendered in real-time. Most of the content is legitimate ads. A small fraction is malicious content linking
to landing pages that infect users. Real-time ad networks are being used, often unwittingly, and some
have taken steps to try and combat malicious use of their networks. The Online Trust Alliance is one such
industry group comprised of major software companies and ad networks working together to try and
address this problem. Our goal in this paper is to shed light on the micro-targeting of companies by
criminal enterprise employing real-time ad networks, and to aid the industry in collectively addressing
this problem.
Real-time ad bidding networks have evolved over the last ten years as a means of micro-targeting
customers with advertising content they are more likely to click-on.
From Wikipedia:
Real-time bidding ( RTB ) refers to the means by which ad inventory is bought and sold on a per-
impression basis, via programmatic instantaneous auction, similar to financial markets. [[1]] With
real-time bidding, advertising buyers bid on an impression and, if the bid is won, the buyer’s ad is
instantly displayed on the publisher’s site. [[2]] Real-time bidding lets advertisers manage and
optimize ads from multiple ad-networks by granting the user access to a multitude of different
networks, allowing them to create and launch advertising campaigns, prioritize networks and
allocate advertising stock.
Real-time bidding is a dynamic bidding process where each impression is bid for in (near) real time,
against a static auction where the impressions are typically bundled in groups of 1,000.
A typical transaction begins with a user visiting a website. This triggers a bid request that can
include various pieces of data such as the user’s demographic information, browsing history,
location, and the page being loaded. The request goes from the publisher to an ad exchange,
which submits it and the accompanying data to multiple advertisers who automatically submit
bids in real time to place their ads. Advertisers bid on each ad impression as it is served. The
Invincea, Inc. Release Date: 10.27.2014
Invincea White Paper 14
impression goes to the highest bidder and their ad is served on the page.This process is repeated
for every ad slot on the page. Real time bidding transactions typically happen within 100
milliseconds from the moment the ad exchange received the request.
The bidding happens autonomously and advertisers set maximum bids and budgets for an
advertising campaign. The criteria for bidding on particular types of consumers can be very
complex, taking into account everything from very detailed behavioral profiles to conversion data.
The following infographic summarizes how advanced adversaries are now micro-targeting companies
using malvertising.
Invincea, Inc. Release Date: 10.27.2014
Invincea White Paper 15
Invincea, Inc. Release Date: 10.27.2014
Invincea White Paper 16