Cluster C: OWA Backdoor Activity (Mini-Cluster)
During the investigation, we revealed a third cluster, which is in fact a mini-cluster characterized mainly by the deployment of multiple instances of a custom OWA (Outlook Web Access) backdoor. The
backdoor was used to harvest credentials of users logging into Microsoft OWA services, granting the attackers the ability to access the environment stealthily.
According to the forensic evidence available to us, the earliest indications of use of this backdoor begin in 2017. The deployment of the backdoor continued all the way to 2021, bearing the hallmark of a
true advanced persistent threat (APT). From 2017-2020 we have observed only a few instances of the backdoor. However, in March 2021, the attackers installed the backdoor on over 20 machines in a
short period of time. This interesting uptick could be explained by the fact that the attackers lost access due to mitigation efforts and needed to re-establish it. Another possible explanation could be
related to Microsoft releasing patches for the newly discovered Microsoft Exchange Server vulnerabilities, which caused a sharp rise in attacks against Microsoft Exchange Servers that were unpatched.
Code analysis of this backdoor showed considerable similarities with previously documented backdoors dubbed “Dllshellexc2007” and “Dllshellexc2010”, which were discovered by TrendMicro in their
Operation Iron Tiger report and attributed to Group-3390 (also tracked by some vendors as APT27, Emissary Panda). According to the Iron Tiger report, the backdoor is compatible and can integrate
with the China Chopper WebShell.
The activity of this backdoor however, could not be tied directly to the other clusters, which is why we decided to keep it as a separate cluster. That being said, there were some instances where we have
observed this backdoor deployed on the same victim as clusters A and B, around the same time frames, and in some cases even on the same endpoints.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos 24/35
8/4/2021 DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos
Given these overlaps and the previously documented compatibility of this OWA backdoor with the China Chopper WebShell, it is possible that Cluster C is somehow related to the activity described in
Cluster A, yet a direct connection between the two was not observed in our investigation.