Command and control (TA0011)
The adversary uses Cobalt Strike as framework to manage their compromised systems. We observed
the use of Cobalt Strike’s C2 protocol encapsulated in DNS by the adversary in 2017 and 2018. They
switched to C2 encapsulated in HTTPS in Q3 2019. An interesting observation is they made use of a
cracked/patched trial version of Cobalt Strike. This is important to note because the functionalities of
Cobalt Strike’s trial version are limited. More importantly: the trial version doesn’t support encryption
of command and control traffic in cases where the protocol itself isn’t encrypted, such as DNS. In one
intrusion we investigated, the victim had years of logging available of outgoing DNS-requests. The
DNS-responses weren’t logged. This means that only the DNS C2 leaving the victim’s network was
logged. We developed a Python script that decoded and combined most of the logged C2
communication into a human readable format. As the adversary used Cobalt Strike with DNS as
command & control protocol, we were able to reconstruct more than two years of adversary activity.
With all this activity data, it was possible for us to create some insight into the ‘office’-hours of this
adversary. The activity took place six days a week, rarely on Sundays. The activity started on average
at 02:36 UTC and ended rarely after 13:00 UTC. We observed some periods where we expected
activity of the adversary, but almost none was observed. These periods match with the Chinese Golden
Week holiday.
8/22
Figure 2: Heatmap of activity. Times on the X-axis are in UTC.
The adversary also changed their domains for command & control around the same time they
switched C2 protocols. They used a subdomain under a regular parent domain with a .com TLD in
2017 and 2018, but they started using sub-domains under the parent domain appspot.com and
azureedge.net in 2019. The parent domain appspot.com is a domain owned by Google, and part of
Google’s App Engine platform as a service. Azureedge.net is a parent domain owned by Microsoft, and
part of Microsoft’s Azure content delivery network.