Utilizing Cambridge University to Establish Trust
On June 19, 2019, FireEye’s Managed Defense Security Operations Center received an
exploit detection alert on one of our FireEye Endpoint Security appliances. The offending
application was identified as Microsoft Excel and was stopped immediately by FireEye
Endpoint Security’s ExploitGuard engine. ExploitGuard is our behavioral monitoring,
detection, and prevention capability that monitors application behavior, looking for
various anomalies that threat actors use to subvert traditional detection mechanisms.
Offending applications can subsequently be sandboxed or terminated, preventing an
exploit from reaching its next programmed step.
The Managed Defense SOC analyzed the alert and identified a malicious file named
System.doc (MD5: b338baa673ac007d7af54075ea69660b), located in C:\Users\
.templates. The file System.doc is a Windows Portable Executable (PE),
despite having a "doc" file extension. FireEye identified this new malware family as
TONEDEAF.
A backdoor that communicates with a single command and control (C2) server using
HTTP GET and POST requests, TONEDEAF supports collecting system information,
uploading and downloading of files, and arbitrary shell command execution. When
executed, this variant of TONEDEAF wrote encrypted data to two temporary files –
temp.txt and temp2.txt – within the same directory of its execution. We explore additional
technical details of TONEDEAF in the malware appendix of this post.
Retracing the steps preceding exploit detection, FireEye identified that System.doc was
dropped by a file named ERFT-Details.xls. Combining endpoint- and network-visibility,
we were able to correlate that ERFT-Details.xls originated from the URL http://www.cam
research-ac[.]com/Documents/ERFT-Details.xls. Network evidence also showed the
access of a LinkedIn message directly preceding the spreadsheet download.
Managed Defense reached out to the impacted customer’s security team, who confirmed
the file was received via a LinkedIn message. The targeted employee conversed with
"Rebecca Watts", allegedly employed as "Research Staff at University of Cambridge".
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/07/hard-pass-declining-apt34-invite-to-join-their-professional-network.html 2/10
7/19/2019 Hard Pass: Declining APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Network « Hard Pass: Declining APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Networ…
The conversation with Ms. Watts, provided in Figure 1, began with the solicitation of
resumes for potential job opportunities.
Figure 1: Screenshot of LinkedIn message asking to download TONEDEAF
This is not the first time we’ve seen APT34 utilize academia and/or job offer
conversations in their various campaigns. These conversations often take place on
social media platforms, which can be an effective delivery mechanism if a targeted
organization is focusing heavily on e-mail defenses to prevent intrusions.
FireEye examined the original file ERFT-Details.xls, which was observed with at least
two unique MD5 file hashes:
96feed478c347d4b95a8224de26a1b2c
caf418cbf6a9c4e93e79d4714d5d3b87
A snippet of the VBA code, provided in Figure 2, creates System.doc in the target
directory from base64-encoded text upon opening.
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/07/hard-pass-declining-apt34-invite-to-join-their-professional-network.html 3/10
7/19/2019 Hard Pass: Declining APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Network « Hard Pass: Declining APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Networ…
Figure 2: Screenshot of VBA code from System.doc
The spreadsheet also creates a scheduled task named "windows update check" that
runs the file C:\Users\.templates\System Manager.exe every minute. Upon
closing the spreadsheet, a final VBA function will rename System.doc to System
Manager.exe. Figure 3 provides a snippet of VBA code that creates the scheduled task,
clearly obfuscated to avoid simple detection.
Figure 3: Additional VBA code from System.doc
Upon first execution of TONEDEAF, FireEye identified a callback to the C2 server
offlineearthquake[.]com over port 80.