4.1 User-mode functionality
There are several modules that constitute the user-mode functionality. The main module that contains
the others is a large dynamic link library. Other modules including kernel mode drivers are stored in the
DLL’s resources.
4.1.1 Overview of the main module
The main module is represented as a large DLL packed with UPX. Its unpacked size is 1233920 bytes
(1.18 MB).
Figure 4.1 – Section Table of the Main Module
www.eset.com
46
Figure 4.2 – Resources of the Main Module
The main module exports 21 functions by ordinal. Each function has its own purpose as will be described
in the section Exported functions.
Figure 4.3 – Export Address Table of the Main Module
4.1.2 Injecting code
The malware employs quite an interesting technique to inject code into the address space of a process
and execute exported functions. The user-mode modules of Stuxnet are implemented as dynamic link
libraries, and exported functions are frequently executed or injected into the address space of a process.
There are two different cases: when a module is loaded into an existing process, or when the module is
injected into a new process.
www.eset.com
47
4.1.3 Injecting into a current process
Consider the first case, when one of the user-mode components wants to call a function exported by
another component in the context of the calling process. To avoid being detected by antivirus software
the malware loads a module in the following way:


It allocates a memory buffer in the calling process for the module to be loaded;


It patches Ntdll.dll system library: namely, it hooks the following functions:


a. ZwMapViewOfSection;
b. ZwCreateSection;
c. ZwOpenFile;
d. ZwClose;
e. ZwQueryAttributesFile;
f. ZwQuerySection;

It calls LoadLibraryW API, exported from kerenl32.dll and passing it as a parameter a

specially constructed library name, using the pattern: KERNEL32.DLL.ASLR.XXXXXXXX or
SHELL32.DLL.ASLR.XXXXXXXX, where XXXXXXXX is a random hexadecimal number;


It calls desired exported function;


It calls FreeLibrary API function to free loaded library.


To hook the functions specified above, the malware allocates a memory buffer for code that will
dispatch calls to hooked functions, overwrite some data in MZ header of the image with the code that
transfers control to the new functions, and hook the original functions by overwriting its bodies, the
result of these manipulations is presented on figure 4.4.
www.eset.com
48
Figure 4.4 – Hooking Functions in ntdll.dll
www.eset.com
49
The MZ header of ntdll.dll is overwritten with the following code:
Figure 4.5 – Code Injected into MZ Header of ntdll.dll
The purpose of all these manipulations is to load a non-existent library legitimately (at least as far as the
system is concerned). The hook functions allow the malware to load module as if it were a library that
really existed. When a library with specific name (KERNEL32.DLL.ASLR or SHELL32.DLL.ASLR) is
requested, these functions map the desired module into the address space of the process. As a result,
the loaded module looks like a real dynamic link library except that there is no file with the name of the
library on the hard drive, which reduces probability of detection by heuristic methods. Some anti-rootkit
software does detect it and warn users:
www.eset.com
50
Figure 4.6 – GMER Detected that Loaded Library doesn't have Corresponding File
4.1.4 Injecting into a new process
In the second case when the malware requires the module to be executed in a newly created process it
uses different approach. To achieve this Stuxnet:


Creates a host process;


Replaces the image of the process with the module to execute and with supplemental


code that will load the module and call specified export passing parameters (as in the first case
described).
Depending on the processes present in the system the malware chooses the host process from
the following list: 
lssas.exe (system process); 
avp.exe (Kaspersky); 
mcshield.exe (McAfee VirusScan); 
avguard.exe (AntiVir Personal Edition); 
bdagent.exe (BitDefender Switch Agent); 
UmxCfg.exe (eTrust Configuration Engine from Computer Associates International); 
fsdfwd.exe (F-Secure Anti-Virus suite); 
rtvscan.exe (Symantec Real Time Virus Scan service); 
ccSvcHst.exe (Symantec Service Framework); 
ekrn.exe (ESET Antivirus Service Process); 
tmproxy.exe (PC-cillin antivirus software from TrendMicro);
The malware enumerates processes in the system and if it finds a process whose executable
image has a name present in this list, and which meets certain criteria, then it is chosen to be a host for
the module.
4.1.5 Installation
We can consider the case when ~WTR4141. TMP is loaded due to the vulnerability (CVE-2010-2568) in
displaying shortcuts for icons as described in section 1.6. As soon as the file is loaded it hooks the
following functions to hide the worm's files on a flash USB drive.
www.eset.com