Threat Analysis
On March 27, 2019, Symantec published research titled, “Elfin:
Relentless Espionage Group Targets Multiple Organizations in
Saudi Arabia and U.S.” The report outlined a three- year APT33
cyberespionage campaign. Using the IP addresses and malware
hashes provided in that research, Insikt Group researchers
conducted a follow-up analysis of the malicious domains used by
APT33 to determine two things:

Whether or not APT33 had continued their activities, and if so,

if they had changed TTPs in response to the publication

Whether or not there were any previously unreported

historic activities conducted by the group that were worthy of
publication
Nasr Institute and Kavosh Redux
In our previous report, “Iran’s Hacker Hierarchy Exposed,” we
concluded that the exposure of one APT33 contractor, the Nasr
Institute, by FireEye in 2017, along with our intelligence on the
composition and motivations of the Iranian hacker community,
pointed to a tiered structure within Iran’s state-sponsored offensive
cyber program. We assessed that many
According to a sensitive Insikt Group source who provided
information for previous research, these organizations employed a
mid-level tier of ideologically aligned task managers responsible for
the compartmentalized tasking of over 50 contracting organizations,
who conducted activities such as vulnerability research, exploit
development, reconnaissance, and the conducting of network
intrusions or attacks. Each of these discrete components, in
developing an offensive cyber capability, were purposefully
assigned to different contracting groups to protect the integrity
of overarching operations and to ensure the IRGC and/or MOIS
retained control of operations and mitigated the risk from rogue
hackers.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0626 | 4
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Obfuscating Iranian government involvement in offensive campaigns.
FireEye also noted in their 2017 report that the online handle
“xman_1365_x,” found within the PDB path in an APT33 TURNEDUP
backdoor sample, belonged to an individual at the Nasr Institute.
The same handle was then linked to destructive operations using
NewsBeef and StoneDrill malware families. Then, in March 2017,
researchers linked StoneDrill to the Shamoon 2 operation and to
the APT35 (also known as Charming Kitten, Newscaster, or NewBeef)
threat actor.
Our previous analyses showed that the person behind the
“xman_1365_x” handle self-identified on Iranian hacking forums
as Mahdi Honarvar from Mashhad, with speculation that he was
also affiliated with the Kavosh Security Center since around 2017.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0626 | 5
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Kavosh’s role within the Iranian cyber ecosystem was further
uncovered by Group-IB’s recent analysis detailing that Kavosh
was the employer for “Nima Nikjoo” between 2006 and 2014.
Their analysis concluded that a March 2019 campaign targeting
a Turkish military electronics manufacturer was perpetrated by
another Iranian threat actor, MUDDYWATER. MUDDYWATER used
the POWERSTATS backdoor, proliferated in maldocs that contained
metadata revealing the author as “Gladiyator_CRK,” with a possible
name of “Nima.” Additionally, an email address suspected to be
related, “gladiyator_cracker@yahoo.com,” was associated with
“     ,” which translates to “Nima Nickjou,” in a 2014 blog that
exposed the names and email addresses of individuals allegedly
employed at the Nasr Institute. Another research blog authored by
pseudonym “0xffff0800” corroborated some of these findings and
revealed “Nima Nikjoo” to be “Nima Nikjoo Tabrizi.”
LinkedIn profile picture of suspected APT33 threat actor Nima Nikjoo Tabrizi. (Accessed on June 14, 2019)
Who Is Nima Nikjoo Tabrizi?
OSINT reveals there is an active Linkedin account and other active
social media accounts in the name of Nima Nikjoo Tabrizi, claiming
that he is a reverse engineer and malware analyst at Symantec.
Symantec, however, has confirmed to Recorded Future that Tabrizi
has never worked for them:
“We have been aware of this individual for a long time. Nima Nikjoo is not a Symantec
employee and we have no record of an individual by this name working at Symantec.”
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0626 | 6
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Having been exposed working for the Nasr Institute, a government
organization, and the Kavosh Security Center, which has strong
associations with Iranian state-sponsored cyberespionage
activity, we assess with high confidence that Tabrizi is engaged in
cyberespionage activity on behalf of the Iranian state.
Employment history of suspected APT33 threat actor Nima Nikjoo Tabrizi.
Based on this information, it is possible that upon the exposure of
the Nasr Institute as a front for Iranian state-sponsored offensive
cyber activity, employees transitioned over to other entities, such as
Kavosh, to protect their identities and minimize further exposure.
There were no further widely reported exposures relating to the
Nasr Institute until the links between Mahdi Honarvar to Kavosh
Security Center were revealed in 2017. Therefore, we assess that
the overlapping technical and personal information points to
a historic linkage between the threat actors APT33, APT35, and
MUDDYWATER.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0626 | 7
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
These technical and persona overlaps among Iranian threat
actors are not unexpected given the tiered structure of Iranian
state management of cyber operations. Within this structure, we
assessed that managers are running multiple teams, some of which
are associated with government organizations and others that are
contracted private companies (such as ITSec Team).