Kernel shellcode
All the steps described so far only served the purpose of propagating code execution from
the UEFI down to the Windows kernel. This shellcode is the first actually malicious
component of the chain so far. It sets up a thread notify routine that gets invoked each
time a new thread is created. CosmicStrand waits until one turns up in winlogon.exe, and
then executes a callback in this high-privilege context.
There, CosmicStrand sleeps for 10 minutes and tests the internet connectivity of the
infected machine. CosmicStrand doesn’t rely on high-level API functions to generate
network traffic, but instead interacts directly with the Transport Device Interface: it
generates the needed IRPs (I/O request packets) and passes them to the network stack by
sending IOCTLs to the TCP or UDP device object. DNS requests are performed in this
fashion, using either Google’s DNS server (8.8.8[.]8) or a custom one (222.222.67[.]208).
CosmicStrand retrieves its final payload by sending a specifically crafted UDP (preferably)
or TCP packet to its C2 server, update.bokts[.]com. The reply is expected to return in one
or several packets containing chunks of 528 bytes following this structure:
Offset (bytes) Description
0-4 Magic number
4-8 Total length of the payload
8-12 Length of the current chunk
12-16 CRC32 checksum of the current chunk
16-* Payload chunk
The various chunks are reassembled into a series of bytes that are mapped into kernel
space and interpreted as a shellcode. Unfortunately, we were not able to obtain a copy of
data coming from the C2 server. We did, however, find a user-mode sample in-memory
on one of the infected machines we could study, and believe it is linked with
CosmicStrand. This sample is an executable that runs command lines in order to create a
user (“aaaabbbb”) on the victim’s machine and add it to the local administrators group.
https://securelist.com/cosmicstrand-uefi-firmware-rootkit/106973/ 7/12
7/26/22, 11:13 AM CosmicStrand: the discovery of a sophisticated UEFI firmware rootkit | Securelist
We can infer from this that shellcodes received from the C2 server might be stagers for
attacker-supplied PE executables, and it is very likely that many more exist.