The Loader
The loader is a 32-bit DLL utilizing dynamic API resolving with name hashing for evasion and
anti-analysis. The loader is not only able to hide its main functionality, but also avoid static
detection of suspicious API calls by dynamically resolving them instead of using static imports.
The purpose of cmpbk32.dll is to load specific shellcode from the INIT file, depending on the
infection stage, and run it. The INIT file contains two shellcodes: the first-stage shellcode runs
the persistence and cleanup script, and the second-stage shellcode is a multi-layer loader. The goal
is to consecutively decrypt the other three fileless loader layers and eventually load the main
payload in memory. To distinguish between the stages, the DLL entry point DllMain performs
different actions based on the call reason.
Setup Stage
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 4/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
When the malicious document is closed, a PROCESS_DETACH event is triggered. The DLL
executes a portion of the INIT file in charge of cleaning up the files created by the malicious
document and creates a scheduled task for persistence:
Figure 4: DLLMain PROCESS_DETACH event executes shellcode responsible for persistence and
cleanup from INIT
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 5/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
Figure 5: Persistence and cleanup function
Loader stage
The main loading process begins with the scheduled task running cmdl32.exe which loads the
malicious DLL cmpbk32.dll . DLL sideloading by a legitimate process is a technique
commonly used by threat actors; coupling it with a robust loading process can help evade modern
anti-virus solutions as, in this case, the actual running process is valid and signed by Microsoft.
Note that the cmpbk64.dll is not copied into the %TEMP%\\OfficeInit folder. The 64-bit
version of the DLL is only used in the initial infection stage by the 64-bit MS Word process, as the
32-bit cmdl32.exe can only load 32-bit cmpbk32.dll .
When the DLL is loaded, the PROCESS_ATTACH event is triggered and starts a sequence of
operations. The sequence peels off multiple encrypted layers from the INIT file and eventually
reveals and executes the final payload. It first reads an XOR-encrypted blob from the INIT file
and decrypts it in memory using a simple XOR with the key 0x9229 . The decrypted blob is a
position-independent code and the first of the encrypted layers that “protects” the main payload.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 6/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
Figure 6: Layers of decryption performed by the loader to uncover the final payload.
This first layer is rather simple. It dynamically loads from Kernel32.dll the WinAPI functions that
are essential for its work. Next, it begins a sequence of operations to uncover the second layer. It
uses RC4 with the following hardcoded key: 0x1C, 0x2C, 0x66, 0x7C, 0x11, 0xCF,
0xE9, 0x7A, 0x99, 0x8B, 0xA3, 0x48, 0xC2, 0x03, 0x07, 0x55 . It then
decompresses the decrypted buffer using RtlDecompressBuffer and reveals the second layer.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 7/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
Figure 7: Injection to msiexec.exe
The injected code begins by dynamically loading a PE file embedded inside and executing it from
its entry point.