RUSSIA
EVOLUTION OF VOODOO BEAR
In February 2018, CrowdStrike reported on a newly identified malware
family dubbed OlympicDestroyer, a destructive tool used against entities
involved in organizing the Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang. This
malware shared technical and operational links with a series of attacks in
2017 against Ukrainian entities that leveraged ransomware and pseudoransomware as an operational cover for destructive purposes. These
2017 attacks include use of XDATA, NotPetya, and BadRabbit. Further
TTP overlaps between these 2017 operations and previous destructive
campaigns — specifically the use of the KillDisk wiper in December 2016 —
have linked all of these campaigns to the Russia-based adversary VOODOO
BEAR with medium-high confidence.
Unlike previous activity, which used crimeware as a disguise, VOODOO
BEAR’s OlympicDestroyer malware featured an apparent attempt to
adopt some TTPs used by DPRK-associated actors. For example, many
STARDUST CHOLLIMA tools are built using an older version of Microsoft
Visual Studio (MSVS 6), which was also used to build OlympicDestroyer.
This technique demonstrates an evolution in the use of attribution fronts to
include a “false flag” style of operation, in which the adversary attempts to
attach blame for an attack to a third party.
Figure 13.
VOODOO BEAR Tools Over Time
2019 GLOBAL THREAT REPORT
ADVERSARY TRADECRAFT AND THE IMPORTANCE OF SPEED
2019 GLOBAL THREAT REPORT
ADVERSARY TRADECRAFT AND THE IMPORTANCE OF SPEED
2019 GLOBAL THREAT REPORT
ADVERSARY TRADECRAFT AND THE IMPORTANCE OF SPEED
IRAN
Earlier in the year,
rhetoric and policy
decisions by Iranian
officials suggest actions
directed at the U.S.
may be less overt and
more likely designed to
increase “soft power”
influence.
Despite some short-term gaps in attributable incidents this year, Iranbased malicious cyber activity appeared to be fairly constant in 2018 —
particularly involving incidents targeting other countries in the MENA region.
Additionally, the December 2018 re-emergence of the Shamoon wiper
shows significant TTP overlap with previously observed Iran-based activity,
suggesting that Iran continues to be a destructive threat — not only within
the Middle East, but also to companies based in Western countries that may
do business or maintain infrastructure in the region. Newly observed efforts
— including long-running strategic web compromise (SWC) campaigns,
mobile malware and publicly disclosed information operations on Western
social media platforms — demonstrate that Iranian adversaries are adopting
new TTPs. These tactics are being used to conduct cyber espionage
campaigns against regional rivals, control dissident activity, and further “soft
war” campaigns internationally.
On May 8, 2018, the U.S. government withdrew from the Joint
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and re-imposed sanctions that
had been previously lifted under the agreement. CrowdStrike detected no
apparent retaliatory attacks against the U.S. specifically; however, it remains
unclear whether the return of Shamoon is part of a strategy for responding
to the November 2018 resumption of sanctions targeting Iran’s energy
sector. Earlier in the year, rhetoric and policy decisions by Iranian officials
suggest actions directed at the U.S. may be less overt and more likely
designed to increase “soft power” influence. Iran has also taken defensive
measures to harden domestic networks, promoting a narrative of the
potential risk of cyberattacks launched by the West.
2019 GLOBAL THREAT REPORT
ADVERSARY TRADECRAFT AND THE IMPORTANCE OF SPEED