CONCLUSION
Operation Pawn Storm used next-level
spear-phishing tactics to obtain the email
credentials of primarily military, embassy,
and defense contractor personnel from the
United States and its allies. The threat actors
used a mix of spear-phishing emails and
specially crafted webmail service phishing
websites to gain access to victims’ inboxes in
hopes of getting better footholds inside target
organizations. So as not to raise suspicion,
the attackers used well-known events and
conferences as social engineering bait. They
have been quite persistent as well, as we
have seen evidence that attacks have been
going on since 2007.
Apart from effective phishing tactics, the
threat actors used a combination of proven
targeted attack staples to compromise
systems and get in to target networks—
exploits and data-stealing malware. SEDNIT
variants particularly proved useful, as
these allowed the threat actors to steal all
manners of sensitive information from the
victims’ computers while effectively evading
detection.
Trend Micro has notified the targets that have
been identified in this paper. Individuals and
their respective organizations, meanwhile,
should use solutions that can help protect
against the various attack vectors that the
threat actors behind Operation Pawn Storm
used.
Messaging security solutions such as Trend
Micro™ InterScan™ Messaging Security
[15] and the ScanMail™ Suite for Microsoft
Exchange [16] can send suspicious email
attachments to a sandbox for analysis, thus
protecting recipients from threats. Other
products such as OfficeScan™ [17] for
endpoints and InterScan Web Security Virtual
Appliance [18] for gateways can also block
user access to known phishing sites.
For overall protection against targeted
attacks, Trend Micro™ Deep Discovery
[19] can help protect potential targets by
sandboxing and analyzing suspicious
attachments to identify phishing emails via
Email Inspector. Via 360-degree monitoring
of network traffic to get networkwide
visibility and intelligence, Deep Discovery
allows users to detect and respond to
targeted attacks and advanced threats.
It also monitors all ports and more than
80 protocols, giving users the broadest
protection available. Even more, specialized
detection engines and custom sandboxing
help identify and analyze malware, C&C
communications, and evasive attacker
activities that are invisible to standard
security solutions. Along with in-depth threat
intelligence, it allows for rapid response
and automatic sharing with other security
products to create real-time custom defense
against attacks.
Trend Micro | Operation Pawn Storm