Connections to Chinese Threat Actors
We uncovered key similarities between RedXOR and previously reported malware
associated with Winnti umbrella threat group. These malware are PWNLNX backdoor
and XOR.DDOS and Groundhog , two botnets attributed to Winnti by BlackBerry.
The below samples can be used for reference:
Similarities between the samples:

Use of old open-source kernel rootkits: RedXOR uses an open-source LKM

rootkit called “Adore-ng” to hide its process. Based on a FireEye report Winnti
used this rootkit in their “ADORE.XSE” Linux backdoor. Embedding open-source
LKM rootkits is a common Winnti technique. The group has been documented
using Azazel and Suterusu.

The CheckLKM function name used by RedXOR has also been used in PWNLNX

and XOR.DDOS.

Provides the operator with a pseudo-terminal: RedXOR uses Python pty

shell by importing the python pty library. PWNLNX implements the pty shell
function in c.
https://www.intezer.com/blog/malware-analysis/new-linux-backdoor-redxor-likely-operated-by-chinese-nation-state-actor/ 2/19
3/12/2021 Linux Backdoor RedXOR Likely Operated by Chinese Nation-State
Figure 1: Python pty shell used in RedXOR

Encoding network with XOR: The backdoor encodes its network data with a

scheme based on XOR. Encoding network data with XOR has been used in
previous Winnti malware including PWNLNX.

Persistence service name: As part of its persistence methods, RedXOR

attempts to create a service under rc.d. The developer added “S99” before the
name of the service to lower its priority and make it run last on system initiation.
This technique was used in XOR.DDOS and Groundhog samples where the
malware developer added “S90” to the service name.

Main functions flow: PWNLX and RedXOR have a main function which is in

charge of initialization. In both backdoors, the main function calls another
function which is in charge of the main logic. The main logic function names are
main_process in RedXOR and MainThread in PWLNX. Both main functions
daemonize the process to detach from the terminal and run in the background.
https://www.intezer.com/blog/malware-analysis/new-linux-backdoor-redxor-likely-operated-by-chinese-nation-state-actor/ 3/19
3/12/2021 Linux Backdoor RedXOR Likely Operated by Chinese Nation-State

XML for file listing: RedXOR’s directory function and PWNLNX’s getfiles

function are both in charge of directory listing. Their code flow implementation is
different, however, as both malware send the directory listing as an XML file to the
C2 server. Figure 2 shows the XML structure used in PWNLNX and RedXOR. The
file’s data used in both functions are: path, name, type, user, permission, size,
time.
Figure 2: The XML structure used by PWNLNX’s getfiles function and RedXOR’s
directory function

Legacy Red Hat compilers: RedXOR and PWNLNX were both compiled with a

Red Hat 4.4.7 compiler. This compiler is the default GCC compiler on RHEL6.

Chown similarity: Both PWNLNX and RedXOR change the file’s user and group

owner to a large ID. The same technique has been used by the XOR.DDoS malware
as referenced in the analysis by MalwareMustDie.
Figure 3: Similarity between PWNLNX and RedXOR of the UID and GID used
with “lchown” function call

Overall flow and functionalities: The overall code flow, behavior, and

capabilities of RedXOR are very similar to PWNLNX. Both have file uploading and
downloading functionalities together with a running shell. The network tunneling
functionality in both families is called “PortMap”.

Unstripped ELF binaries: Malware developers will often tamper with a file’s

symbols and/or sections, making it harder for researchers to analyze them.
However, RedXOR and various Winnti malware, including PWNLNX and
XOR.DDOS, are unstripped.