Area 1: Governance over crisis and clinical and services continuity management in the HSE and across HGs and CHOs
Introduction and Context
The HSE has shown itself to be well versed and
proficient in major emergency management, a
capability that has been demonstrated through its
response to several recent events, most notably the
2020 COVID-19 pandemic and the 2019 nurses’
strike. The integration of the Major Emergency
Management Framework with the wider national
emergency management capability enables a
comprehensive approach to plan for, to respond and
to coordinate recovery from major emergencies which
threaten persons or infrastructure at a national as well
as local level.
The organisation’s approach to incident and
emergency management is detailed in the following
preparation documents:
• A Framework for Major Emergency Management;
• Area Emergency Management Plans;
• Hospital Major Emergency Plans;
• Emergency Management Operational Delivery
Plan; and
• Incident Management Framework.
FA2.KF1 Crisis management and clinical and
services continuity were not integrated within an
overarching Operational Resilience Programme,
leading to siloed work streams and capabilities
There was little active integration between clinical and
services continuity, crisis management and the other
closely aligned disciplines to ensure they directly
informed planning and that preparedness evolved to
prevailing conditions. The HSE is a large and diverse
organisation with complex operational structures.
Initiatives to achieve greater integration of resilience
disciplines were proposed in September 2019, when
an Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) programme
was discussed at the Board meeting. [180] Following this
Review the HSE’s new CEO and Board and Audit and
Risk Committee led a programme of work to further
develop the corporate governance of risk. This
included greater oversight at Board and ARC level for
corporate risks, significant reviews of the Corporate
Risk Register led by the EMT, work undertaken
between the Board and the EMT to improve the
risk management process, the establishment of
a Corporate Risk Support Team and increased
investment provided in the 2021 National Service
Plan to strengthen the corporate level risk team.
A subsequent review of the HSE’s corporate services
commenced in December 2019, [181] ultimately led
to the proposal that a new role at National Director
level would be established with responsibility for
Governance and Risk (“ND G&R”). Responsibilities
include the development of risk and business
continuity management frameworks through which
risk management and clinical and service continuity
plans will be reviewed, maintained and validated.
Responsibility for clinical and service continuity under
the HSE’s accountability structure will remain with
operational and functional managers. [182] Resilience
178 PD CEN/TS 17091:2018 ‘Crisis management - Guidance for developing a strategic capability’, p. 8.
179 PD CEN/TS 17091:2018 ‘Crisis management - Guidance for developing a strategic capability’, p. 8.
180 Minutes-hse-board-meeting-27-09-2019
181 Centre Review Slides June 2021
182 HSE_CCR_Phase2_HealthcareStrategy_Gov&Risk(Extract)
66 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
was also highlighted as a priority at the Performance
and Delivery Committee meeting in June of 2021. [183]
Board oversight of the wider risk and resilience
capability is currently delivered through a number
of different committees, under the consolidated
oversight of the Audit & Risk Committee, as follows:
• Clinical and services continuity (currently
described as business continuity) - Audit & Risk
Committee; and previously People & Culture
Committee until June 2020;
• Incident management - Safety & Quality
Committee;
• Enterprise risk management - oversight and
management - Audit and Risk Committee; and
• Cyber security - Performance & Delivery
Committee.
The workstreams related to these risks often operated
in silos. Additionally, when risks were identified,
improvements to the HSE’s response capability were
not always informed by those risks. For example,
the Board received a detailed briefing in November
2020 on the emerging cyber threats faced by the HSE
and the increase of the ransomware risk to business
continuity. [184,185] Nevertheless, the Cybersecurity and
Business Continuity risk ratings in the CRR remained
constant (at a ‘High’ rating of 16). [186,187,188,189]
Following the review of corporate services, the ND
G&R (equivalent to a Chief Risk Officer) reports
through the Chief Strategy Officer to the CEO, Audit &
Risk Committee and Board on risk management. In a
mature Operational Resilience Programme, we would
expect to see the separate, but related disciplines of
risk management, incident management, clinical and
services continuity and crisis management integrated
into a comprehensive resilience framework under the
coordination of a senior executive, usually a Chief
Risk Officer who has appropriate access to the EMT,
the CEO and the Board. The framework allows for
assurance over the operational capability that is being
delivered by relevant owners.
FA2.KR1.1 Establish governance and oversight
of an Operational Resilience Programme (see
strategic recommendation 4.1 in Section 4)
The HSE should:
• Nominate an executive with responsibility for
operational resilience which will include the
coordination of component parts of crisis
management (including major emergency
management), incident management, clinical
and services continuity and enterprise risk
management;
• Establish a HSE Resilience SteerCo to oversee
the design and delivery of an Operational
Resilience Programme, reporting into the
Board. This SteerCo should include senior
representatives from the EMT who own the
respective resilience disciplines and related
functions (e.g. cyber security), and any additional
key clinical and services and operations
representatives.
FA2.KR1.2 Establish an Operational Resilience
Policy and Programme scope, strategy and
structure (see strategic recommendation 4.1 in
Section 4)
The HSE should:
• Define an overarching policy that incorporates
the above resilience disciplines. Clarify ownership
of the programme (for example, under the ND
G&R) and integration with existing policies. At a
minimum, the policy should include a statement
of leadership commitment, objectives and scope,
roles and responsibilities, reference to relevant
industry standards and an oversight regime;
• Define the Operational Resilience Programme
scope, strategy and structure across the HSE and
funded entities. Define the types of incidents in
scope (e.g. physical, technological, people and
cyber incidents) and how to build and maintain
a capability to respond across the organisation.
Define the operating model or the capability in
terms of dedicated staff, reporting lines, roles
and responsibilities within ‘prepare’ and ‘respond
and recover.’ Specify which areas of the HSE
and funded entities are included and identify
accountable teams/individuals for delivering
specific components of the programme. Agree
the intended end state, the timetable to achieve
the objectives and the resources required;
183 https://www.hse.ie/eng/about/who/board-members/committees-of-the-board/performance-and-delivery-committee /mintues-hse
performance-and-delivery-committee-18th-june-2021.pdf
184 Briefing for HSE Board on Cyber Security
185 Cyber Security Awareness Draft V7.2
186 CRR Full Report Post EMT 2nd Nov OCTOBER 2020 v0.2 03 11 20 FINAL
187 CRR FULL Report Summary and Assessments HSE Board 23rd June 2020 pdf v0.1 23 06 20
188 CRR Q1 2021 Review Report Final post EMT meeting 27 04 21 v1.0 27 04 21
189 CRR Q4 2020 Full Report post EMT meeting February 2021 v0.1 09 02 21
67 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
• Design consistent tools and templates to be
used by the HSE and to be cascaded down as
resources for funded entities. Assign responsible
leads to complete these tools and templates,
and develop documentation and capability at
operational sites.
FA2.KR1.3 Establish assurance over the
Operational Resilience Programme (see strategic
recommendation 4.1 in Section 4)
The HSE should:
• Develop programme reporting, including KPIs,
a method and timetable for review, and risk
management considerations. Ensure that
operational resilience is a standing agenda at
Board (or Board committee) meetings.
FA2.KR1.4 Embed the Operational Resilience
capability via training and exercising (see strategic
recommendation 4.2 in Section 4)
The HSE should:
• Ensure a commitment to maintain and test the
resultant capability by designing an HSE-wide
training and exercising programme. This includes
a structured programme for delivering knowledge
and skills training, and scenario-based exercises
to all relevant stakeholders across the HSE
and funded entities who have a role to play in
any serious or significant incident or crisis; as
well as additional training resources, validation
programmes and independent Internal Audit
review to the Board;
• Ensure ND G&R and at least one Board member
has direct competency/experience in the area of
operational resilience.
FA2.KF2 There was no effective governance or
consistent ownership of clinical and services
continuity across the HSE
There was no central Clinical and Services Continuity
Management System Framework in place in the HSE
prior to the cyber attack. Roles and responsibilities in
respect of the management and oversight of clinical
and services continuity were not documented, nor
were there any structured governance mechanisms
to implement, monitor and report progress on the
objectives contained in the 2016 Business Continuity
Policy. [190] In the absence of this framework, clinical
and services continuity capability was not adequately
resourced or embedded. This was identified in the
review of the HSE’s corporate services, initiated in
2019; and while enterprise risk management and
190 Business Continuity Management Policy 2016
191 Site Workshop 6 and 11 (Hospital C and Hospital A)
192 Audit and Risk Committee TORs
clinical and services continuity are now consolidated
under the National Director for Governance and Risk
(see also finding FA2.KF1), a significant body of work
will be required to address this gap.
Due to the historic lack of governance and oversight
over clinical and services continuity across HGs
and the HSE funded entities, a fragmented and
unvalidated capability was also apparent across
individual hospitals and CHOs. There was no
evidence of Clinical and Services Continuity
Policies at any of the sample sites or of formalised
steering committees with documented roles and
responsibilities for the ongoing and continuous
maintenance of the local Clinical and Services
Continuity Management System. Senior members
of the HSE commented that there was insufficient
support and resources provided to HGs and CHOs to
ensure standardised and consistent approaches to
clinical and services continuity management at local
site level. While continuity of services is implied in
service level agreements with hospitals, there is no
specific requirement to demonstrate a clinical and
services continuity capability. [191] Internal Audit scrutiny
of all organisations funded by the HSE is permitted
in the Audit and Risk Committees ToRs. However,
there was no evidence of any audit of the clinical and
services continuity capability in the HSE or funded
entities. [192]
FA2.KR2.1 Establish and document a formal
governance structure to oversee clinical and
services continuity in the HSE (see strategic
recommendation 4.1 in Section 4)
The HSE should:
• Update the existing Clinical and Services
Continuity Policy and present it to the Board
for review and approval. This should be nested
under the overarching Operational Resilience
Policy (see also recommendation FA2.KR1) and
clearly articulate the purpose, scope, applicability,
review frequency, authority, Clinical and Services
Continuity Management Framework, governance
and monitoring of the policy and programme;
• Establish a programme of governance for clinical
and services continuity - incorporated under
the Operational Resilience Programme (see
recommendation FA2.KR1.1)  - which provides a
central point of accountability for monitoring and
reporting on the implementation, maintenance
and validation of activities in line with policy
objectives. Formally document roles and
responsibilities, a Clinical and Services Continuity
Steering Committee and an organisational chart.
68 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
The scope should reference the HSE and all
funded entities;
• Formalise robust reviews and challenges by
appropriate personnel, of all stages of the Clinical
and Services Continuity Programme, embedding
Internal Audit into the clinical and services
continuity lifecycle to provide independent
assurance to the Board of the HSE’s contingency
capabilities;
• Secure formal clinical and services continuity
qualifications for appropriate members of the
steering committee/implementation team;
• Be prepared to consider the emerging
requirements contained in the EU Critical Entities
Resilience Directive (“CER”).
FA2.KR2.2 Support funded entities (hospital
groups, hospitals and CHOs) to establish
governance over clinical and services continuity
(see strategic recommendation 4.1 in Section 4)
The HSE should support funded entities (hospital
groups, hospitals and CHOs) to:
• Implement Clinical and Services Continuity
Steering Sub-Committees at HG, hospital
and CHO levels, beneath the HSE Steering
Committee; and establish a framework of
governance. These groups should have a similar
structure, terms of reference and roles and
responsibilities as the overarching HSE group;
• Draft specific Clinical and Services Continuity
Policies which complement the HSE’s policy,
according to the policy guidance listed above;
• Appoint relevant clinical and services continuity
sponsors;
• Integrate clinical and services continuity into
project and change management processes
where appropriate.