Charcoal Typhoon
Charcoal Typhoon (CHROMIUM) is a Chinese state-affiliated threat actor with a broad
operational scope. They are known for targeting sectors that include government, higher
education, communications infrastructure, oil & gas, and information technology. Their
activities have predominantly focused on entities within Taiwan, Thailand, Mongolia,
Malaysia, France, and Nepal, with observed interests extending to institutions and
individuals globally who oppose China’s policies. Charcoal Typhoon overlaps with the
threat actor tracked by other researchers as Aquatic Panda, ControlX, RedHotel, and
BRONZE UNIVERSITY.
In recent operations, Charcoal Typhoon has been observed interacting with LLMs in ways
that suggest a limited exploration of how LLMs can augment their technical operations.
This has consisted of using LLMs to support tooling development, scripting,
understanding various commodity cybersecurity tools, and for generating content that
could be used to social engineer targets. Based on these observations, we map and
classify these TTPs using the following descriptions:
LLM-informed reconnaissance : Engaging LLMs to research and understand
specific technologies, platforms, and vulnerabilities, indicative of preliminary
information-gathering stages.
LLM-enhanced scripting techniques : Utilizing LLMs to generate and refine
scripts, potentially to streamline and automate complex cyber tasks and operations.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/02/14/staying-ahead-of-threat-actors-in-the-age-of-ai/ 6/9
2/20/24, 2:27 PM Staying ahead of threat actors in the age of AI | Microsoft Security Blog
LLM-supported social engineering : Leveraging LLMs for assistance with
translations and communication, likely to establish connections or manipulate
targets.
LLM-refined operational command techniques : Utilizing LLMs for advanced
commands, deeper system access, and control representative of post-compromise
behavior.
All associated accounts and assets of Charcoal Typhoon have been disabled, reaffirming
our commitment to safeguarding against the misuse of AI technologies.