2.2.1 2014: from JabberZeuS to Evil Corp
The banking trojan Dridex first appeared on the scene in June 2014 [15] . Dridex is v5 of the malware Bugat, which
surfaced in 2010, and is manifestly operated (perhaps even developed) by at least one member of the Business Club,
Yakubets and Ghinkul, one of the operators of Troyak, the bulletproof hosting provider [16] (taken down in 2010) of
Business Club [18].
A. Ghinkul (alias Smilex) [10], a Moldovan national, was arrested in August 2015 in Cyprus and extradited to the US
[22], after Dell SecureWorks experts redirected the control points of the botnet Dridex towards a sinkhole [17] server,
enabling the FBI to dismantle the associated infrastructure and pick him out from among 14 Dridex distributors.
Ghinkul most likely belonged to the team administrating botnet ID 120.
15 Two weeks after GOZ was taken down, the banking trojan Dyre also allegedly appeared. In addition to having the same developer as Gozi
Neverquest, some attacks involving Dyre could be connected to the Business Club. It is quite possible, then, that the group branched out,
harnessing Dyre to steal money from large business banking accounts, and Dridex to steal money from retail banking accounts. In November
2015, the arrest of Dyre’s operators led to it becoming completely inactive [18].
16 On the black market, criminals offer servers for hire that are remote from any jurisdiction. These are called bulletproof servers. Once hired
out, a command centre can be installed in the server.
17 Sinkholing involves redirecting data flow from zombie machines to a server outside the control of malicious operators.
17/07/2020 Page 7 sur 24
TLP:WHITE
TLP:WHITE
The malware Dridex: origins and uses
Comment: it is interesting to note that, following Ghinkul’s arrest, botnet ID 120 was not the only one to become tempo-
rarily inactive: botnet 220 associated with TA505 only resumed operations three months afterwards.
Despite this arrest, the Business Club, henceforth known as Evil Corporation (alias EvilCorp, Indrik Spider), headed
up by Yakubets, has renewed its infrastructure and remained active.
Fig. 2.1 : Mapping of links between Russian-speaking cybercriminal groups, from ZeuS to Evil Corp
In a joint indictment dated 5 December 2019, the US Department of Justice and Britain’s National Crime Agency
identified nine members of the group Evil Corp. In addition to M. Yakubets:


I. Turashev allegedly acted as administrator of the malware Dridex and lent technical assistance to its operators;


D. Gusev is accused of having materially and financially facilitated Evil Corp, with six Russian-based companies
for which he was the General Director receiving sanctions on the part of the US Treasury [23];


17/07/2020 Page 8 sur 24
TLP:WHITE
TLP:WHITE
The malware Dridex: origins and uses

The six main remaining members of Evil Corp [18] have particularly been identified through posts on social
media [24], most flaunting lavish spending sprees including luxury cars with “BOP” in the number plate
(pronounced “VOR”, which means “thief” in Russian).

In addition to Dridex, Blueliv alleges that Evil Corp has also distributed other trojans including ( POS malware ) [25],
as well as Carbanak [19] [26]. Evil Corp is most likely made up of two operational teams, each with spammers, i.e.
individuals specialising in the distribution of phishing campaigns not only on behalf of Evil Corp but also other
threat actor groups [27].