How Cosmic Lynx Exploits DMARC Controls
The DMARC standard was created to prevent malicious actors from directly spoofing an
organization’s domain when sending an email. The standard was published in 2012 and
allows organizations to authenticate legitimate email messages and sources for their email
sending domains and publish explicit policies that instruct mailbox providers what to do with
inauthentic messages. The most aggressive DMARC policy is “reject” ( p=reject ), which means
that email messages that do not pass DMARC authentication will be rejected by a mail server
and not delivered to a user. In essence, with an effective DMARC policy at reject, cybercriminals
are not able to directly spoof an organization’s domain.
While spoofed domains can be used to create very realistic-looking phishing emails, very few
BEC attacks leverage spoofed domains. In our latest quarterly Email Fraud & Identity Deception
Trends report, we found that 96% of all BEC attacks used free webmail accounts or registered
domains to send malicious emails.
Cosmic Lynx, though, is part of the 4% of attacks to exploit organizations that do not have an
established DMARC policy. This enhances the authenticity of their emails by directly spoofing
the email addresses of CEOs when possible. Based on our analysis of historical Cosmic Lynx
attacks, it is clear that the group is aware of which target organizations have implemented an
effective DMARC policy and which organizations have not.
If a company has not implemented a DMARC policy or has a policy set to monitor-only
(p=none), Cosmic Lynx will directly spoof the CEO’s email address and set the Reply-To
email to their operational email account they use to actually correspond with a victim. If an
organization has an established DMARC policy set to reject or quarantine (p=quarantine),
Cosmic Lynx will not spoof the sending email address. Instead, the group changes the display
name impersonating the CEO to include their email address, which still gives the look that the
email is coming directly from the CEO’s account (e.g., “John Smith - jsmith@acme.com”).
11
Spoofed (top) vs. non-spoofed (bottom) Cosmic Lynx emails.
12