Sending commands
The Send Command link provided for each entry yields an interface that allows an attacker(s) to
send specific commands to the selected infected computer. In addition to a custom command, the
attacker(s) may choose from a menu of commands, which includes options to download binaries that
provide additional functionality (such as keystroke logging or remote administration), acquire system
information (list computer information, software and documents on the computer), or cause the
malware to become dormant. ( See Fig. 9 - p. 35)
Using the Send Command interface, the attacker(s) issues instructions to the infected computers to
download malicious files that are disguised as standard image files. As mentioned above, the files
are most often hosted on additional command servers that appear to be dedicated to hosting these
infected files. [46] These command servers contain a variety of files. While the exact function of each
file is not known, the file names given to them by the attacker(s) provide some indication of their
functionality. There are file names associated with the retrieval of files as well as keystroke logging.
One of the commands available to the attacker(s) instructs infected computers to download the
gh0st RAT remote administration tool, which gives the attacker(s) full, real-time control of the infected
computer. Gh0st RAT is an open source Trojan that is widely available online. It was developed by
Chinese programmers but has now been translated into English. The program allows an attacker to
create an executable file that can be repacked and disguised and used to infect and compromise a target
computer. This file can be configured to directly connect to the gh0st RAT owner or to a third location, a
control server, when it retrieves the current IP address of the gh0st RAT owner. ( See Fig. 10 - p. 36)
Once the infected computer connects to the gh0st RAT owner, an entry appears in the Connection
window with some information about the infected computer. The gh0st RAT owner may then
issue commands to the infected computer. These commands include file manager, screen capture,
keylogger, remote shell, system, webcam view, audio capture, as well as the ability to force the
infected host to download and execute additional malware, such as a gh0st RAT update.
During the course of the investigation, we infected a honey pot computer with the attacker(s)’
malware. We instructed our infected computer to download the attacker(s)’ version of gh0st RAT
using the malicious network’s web-based administration interface. The gh0st RAT attempted to
connect to several *.broad.hk.hi.dynamic.163data.com.cn IP addresses before finally successfully
connecting to xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.broad.hk.hi.dynamic.163data.com.cn).
46 In some cases the malicious image files are hosted on the control servers themselves.
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART TWO 35