Summary and Insights
MuddyWater updated their TTPs, as well as their level of sophistication, mainly during 2020. We assess
that during this year MuddyWater began to work for the IRGC, acting as a contractor for additional
cyber security operations. Since the group was discovered a few years ago, their priority was only CNE
(espionage), against private organizations, government organizations, ministries, and agencies.
The group relied mostly on social engineering methods. For example, in late 2019 we discovered an
attempt to attack a journalist that worked for a prominent US media outlet. In the first stage of the
attack, MuddyWater emailed the victim without sending any file or link. The group tried to schedule a
physical meeting with the victim, and only after he made it clear that he cannot have the meeting, the
group sent him a malicious file. Unlike this past TTP, we identified exploitation of vulnerabilities as the
major injection vector in the current campaign.
We assess that the level of sophistication inherent to the group is high. Israel and other countries that
are under the threat of this group have to harden their network and be prepared for more camouflaged
destructive campaigns. This time, the attack was prevented, and therefore we cannot prove that
MuddyWater installed PowGoop in the victim’s network for a destructive attack. However, we adopted
the assessment by PaloAlto regarding the purpose of this loader.
MuddyWater’s capabilities are not extremely unique, and this attack seems like an escalation of their
aggression level, rather than a completely new form of attack (as was the case in the reported Fox
Kitten attack). However, it is noteworthy that in this attack the previous infiltration into the systems of
the Israeli organizations was used as to gain trust and thus provide a basis for further attacks.
The tension between Israel and Iran in the cyber domain might be an explanation for this evolution.
This tension began a decade ago, with the Stuxnet malware that was attributed to Israel and the US,
and the Iranian response. One of the retaliations of this attack was the mentioned destructive
Shamoon attack which was attributed to another Iranian threat actor – APT33. This year displayed a
new phase of this tension, beginning with the uncovering of the Fox Kitten operation [23] and the alleged
attack by Iran against the water authority of Israel.
The retaliation for Ghasem Soleimani’s death is another possible explanation for the attack. The
assassination caught Iran off-guard. On the same day, the wiper ‘Dustman’ was exposed. We assess
that another potential explanation for Operation Quicksand is retaliation for the assassination, and the
timing was dependent on the toolset the Iranian threat actor possessed at the time.
23 https://www.clearskysec.com/fox-kitten/

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
21 | P a g e