2.4 THE MULTI-THREADING MODEL
Suspect #4 comes with a solid multi-threading model, which seeks to assure fail-safe and
high-performance execution. The malware runs a main thread, which manages four worker
threads and performs C&C command parsing and Lua script execution. The worker
threads are dedicated to receive commands and scripts through different ways. Next to
that, the main thread also runs sub threads to maintain log files the malware creates at
during execution and to keep track of the overall system load the malware creates.
The threads are coordinated via named events, global flag variables, in some cases also
page | 12
mutexes or semaphores are used. The main action of the malware is carried out in the
main thread, which parses commands and executes Lua scripts, provided by the worker
threads via command files.
The threading model is summarized in the following graphic.
Illustration 6: Summary of the thread model
2.4.1 PERFORMANCE MONITORING
A dedicated thread is present for monitoring the CPU load the malware itself generates.
Therefor the thread enumerates all threads from the current process and calculates their
execution time.
The user- and kernel land execution time is measured for every thread using the kernel32!
GetThreadTimes API; then aggregated, so the final value holds the overall CPU usage
time of the malware process. The thread keeps track of the time passing between
executions. If the malware's active execution time in percentage of this delta exceeds a
configured threshold, the malware will suspend all threads of its process for at least 5s.
The threshold is retrieved from configuration in Windows registry, and can be controlled by
the botmaster via the C&C command setcpulimit (see section 2.5).
This clearly is an attempt to keeping a low profile on the infected machine. By maintaining
its own execution load the bot's compromised svchost.exe process will not catch attention
on the process list.
page | 13
2.4.2 THE BACKFILE LAUNCHING THREAD
The backfile launching thread got its name from the named event 'backfilelaunching' which
is set to indicate that the dedicated thread has started. Also in a 1s-frequency the malware
runs the backfile thread to push dump files to one of its remote servers.
The files are named Perflib_Perfdat_dmpbX.dat, where X is an index number starting with

The data written to the file are status messages including a time stamp, which are

returned by command and Lua script execution. The data is encrypted using the
response_key from the configuration.
2.4.3 THE HEARER THREADS
The term 'hearer' can be found plenty of times in the binary, it is assumed that it is
equivalent to 'listener' of some sort. All together suspect #4 manages 4 hearer threads
including one command file per thread. The command file is named net.capX, where X is
the index of the thread; 0, 1, 3 or 4.
The hearer thread's purpose is to receive instructions from the remote servers and provide
them to the main thread. Such instructions are commands and/or one or more Lua scripts.
Each hearer has a dedicated method to receive instructions which is either separately via
HTTP from the server, aggregated through a downloaded data file or as tasks to be
configured as scheduled tasks. The hearer threads dump the received instructions to their
net.cap-files, from where the main thread's command parsing routine fetches and
executes them. The data is encrypted with the storage_key before written to disk.
HEARER 0
Generic hearer thread. Started, but not involved in command fetching and parsing.
HEARER 1
Hearer 1 receives commands and Lua scripts directly via HTTP from one of the C&C
servers. These are encrypted with the storage_key and stored to net.cap1 in the malware's
working directory. Interestingly, the malware handles successful downloads with the HTTP
status code 418. This code is not part of the original HTTP standard, but was introduced in
RFC2324, 1998's traditional IETF April Fool's joke. The textual representation of status
418 is “I'm a teapot.”.
HEARER 2
Hearer 2 is responsible for managing the scheduled tasks, titled 'crontasks' by the
malware. The tasks are stored in a file named perf.tmp, and when due for execution are
copied to the according net.cap-file, net.cap2 in this case. From there the main thread can
page | 14
fetch and execute them in its command parsing loop. Hearer 2 also creates a swap file
named perf.tmp2, which helps in selectively editing the initial task file and in managing the
task list.
HEARER 3
Hearer 3 searches for a file named netdump.db in its local working directory. If found, the
thread will read its content in chunks representing different commands and paste these to
net.cap3. Again, the data is encrypted with the storage_key . No functionality could be
found in the malware code to write to netdump.db, which leaves the conclusion that this
file will be downloaded from a C&C server.