Detecting and Tracking Influence Operations
To detect an influence operation, we need a starting point — a seed.
This can be a particular story that is used by the operation engaging
in it. Once one or more seeds have been selected, we can broaden
the scope of our investigation by finding related topics, such as
URLs, hashtags, and user accounts. The image below illustrates
how our Snowball algorithm can be used to grow the number of
potential accounts engaged in an operation, starting with either
a few accounts or with some topics believed to be used by an
operation.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0612 | 3
The Snowball algorithm generates a large number of candidate
accounts, but will also typically find many false positives since
“innocent” accounts will repost news from the operation.
To decide which accounts are really part of the operation, we can
use behavioral analytics to characterize and cluster the activities
implicated by the Snowball algorithm.
Our approach to analytics is to define a number of similarity metrics
over a large set of social media accounts. For example, accounts
are more similar if they:

Post the same URLs and hashtags — the similarity is stronger

if only a few accounts post a certain URL or hashtag within a
certain time frame

Post on the same topics, as defined by the entities and events

they mention


Are using the same URL shorteners


Have similar temporal behavior — either their overall period


of activity or their weekly or daily behavioral patterns

Have mutually exclusive but adjacent overall periods of

activity — this is a weak but not insignificant indication that
one account has replaced the other

Have similar account names, as defined by the editing

distance between their names
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0612 | 4
All of these different similarity metrics can be used to cluster
accounts. We then look at sets of accounts which are associated
with multiple identical similarity clusters. These accounts are highly
likely to be part of the same influence operation. Accounts which
are related only through joint membership in one cluster are not
very likely to be part of the operation — they are just associated (for
example, by having reposted a post originated by the operation).