1.1. Turkey
We found that a series of middleboxes on Türk Telekom’s network were being used to
redirect hundreds of users attempting to download certain legitimate programs to
versions of those programs bundled with spyware. The spyware we found bundled by
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 1/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
operators was similar to that used in the StrongPity APT attacks. Before switching to the
StrongPity spyware, the operators of the Turkey injection used the FinFisher “lawful
intercept” spyware, which FinFisher asserts is sold only to government entities.
Targeted users in Turkey and Syria who downloaded Windows applications from official
vendor websites including Avast Antivirus, CCleaner, Opera, and 7-Zip were silently
redirected to malicious versions by way of injected HTTP redirects. This redirection was
possible because official websites for these programs, even though they might have
supported HTTPS, directed users to non-HTTPS downloads by default. Additionally,
targeted users in Turkey and Syria who downloaded a wide range of applications from
CBS Interactive’s Download.com (a platform featured by CNET to download software)
were instead redirected to versions containing spyware. Download.com does not appear
to support HTTPS despite purporting to offer “secure download” links. 1
Our scans of Turkey revealed that this spyware injection was happening in at least five
provinces. In addition to targets in Turkey, targets included some users physically located
in Syria who used Internet services relayed into Syria by Türk Telekom subscribers,
sometimes via cross-border directional Wi-Fi links. In one case, more than a hundred
Syrian users appeared to share a single Turkish IP address. Based on publicly available
information we found on Wi-Fi router pages, at least one targeted IP address appears to
serve YPG (Kurdish militia) users. YPG has been the target of a Turkish government air
and ground offensive which began in January 2018. Areas not controlled by the YPG also
appear to be targeted, including the area around Idlib city.