Outlook VBA module
The Gamaredon group uses a package that includes a custom Microsoft Outlook Visual
Basic for Applications (VBA) project. Using Outlook macros to deliver malware is
something we rarely see while investigating malicious campaigns.
This bundle of malicious code starts out with a VBScript that first kills the Outlook
process if it is running, and then removes security around VBA macro execution in
Outlook by changing registry values. It also saves to disk the malicious OTM file
(Outlook VBA project) that contains a macro, the malicious email attachment and, in
some cases, a list of recipients that the emails should be sent to.
Next, it relaunches Outlook with a special option, /altvba , which loads
the Gamaredon VBA project. The malicious code is executed once the
Application.Startup event is received. They have been using this module in three
different ways to send malicious email to:
Everyone in the victim’s address book
Everyone within the same organization
A predefined list of targets
While abusing a compromised mailbox to send malicious emails without the victim’s
consent is not a new technique, we believe this is the first publicly documented case of
an attack group using an OTM file and Outlook macro to achieve it.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/06/11/gamaredon-group-grows-its-game/ 2/13
8/24/2020 Gamaredon group grows its game | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 2. Outlook VBA script creating the malicious email
Based on the “send to all in contact list” behavior of this malicious VBA code, we believe
that this module might have led some organizations to think they were targeted by
Gamaredon when they were merely collateral damage. For example, recent samples
uploaded to VirusTotal coming from regions that are not traditionally targeted by
Gamaredon, such as Japan, could be explained by the actions of this module.
As seen in Figure 2, the VBA code builds the email body and attaches the malicious
document to the email. We’ve seen both .docx and .lnk files being used as attachments.
These are very similar to the content of the malicious attachments used in Gamaredon’s
initial spearphishing campaigns. Figure 3 shows an email generated by this malicious
component.
Figure 3. Email generated by the Outlook VBA module with a Word document attachment that
contains a remote template
The email contains both English and Russian text. However, as illustrated in Figure 3,
there is a problem with the Russian encoding. This was fixed in a later version of this
module — another example of the Gamaredon group’s fast development pace and
apparent lack of attention to detail.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/06/11/gamaredon-group-grows-its-game/ 3/13
8/24/2020 Gamaredon group grows its game | WeLiveSecurity