Ransomware Evolves Into Multifaceted Extortion
Our understanding of ransomware was appropriate for 2019 but
the way ransomware attacks are conducted today has changed,
resulting in different business consequences and different
protections must be put in place. When business leaders and risk
managers hear “ransomware,” they often envision scenarios of malware encrypting
files, making them inaccessible to legitimate users, and ultimately resulting in
some level of business disruption. They also believe that the best protection
against these sorts of attacks is solid offline backups. Now, however, the problem
is fundamentally different, yet we still refer to the problem as ransomware. This
mischaracterization does not serve organizations well and they are unprepared
when an attack’s true nature is revealed in the midst of a real incident. To
better confront and mitigate these incidents, Mandiant has adopted the term
“multifaceted extortion” to characterize this evolved form of ransomware.
1.
2.
3.
4.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 38
The Facets of Multifaceted Extortion
Deployment of ransomware encryptors.
The target organization’s files are encrypted and made unavailable. The attacker
demands a payment for the decryption tool and key.
Theft of sensitive data.
The organizations files are stolen and the attacker demands a payment not to
publish the sensitive data. This extortion is much more consequential than the
first and it may give the attacker more leverage. With a multifaceted extortion, the
attacker turns a service disruption into a data breach. Data breaches may have
more serious business consequences than service disruptions. A data breach can
result in greater reputational damage, regulatory fines, class action lawsuits and
derailed digital transformation initiatives. These consequences were typically not
seen with traditional ransomware before 2019. Organizations may not expect such
consequences if they continue to think of modern multifaceted extortion attacks
simply as ransomware.
Publication of stolen data on a “name-and-shame” website.
Many multifaceted extortion threat actors operate such sites on the Tor network.
The actors may engage security and technology media organizations to amplify
their attacks and attempt to coerce victims into paying.
With multifaceted extortion, in addition to deploying ransomware encryptors and
disrupting business operations, the threat actors steal data, publish it and shame
victims. Having good backups only addresses part of the problem.
Additional coercive tactics.
To compel victims into paying extortion demands, threat actors have applied
pressure in various ways:

Convinced news and media organizations to write stories on victim security

incidents


Called and harassed employees


Notified business partners of data theft, creating friction in relationships and


prompting breach disclosures

Conducted distributed denial of service attacks to further disrupt operations

Disruption and Brand Damage Due to Multifaceted Extortion
Multifaceted extortion continues to be a leading concern for organizations as
threat actors evolve their technology and tradecraft in response to changes in the
security landscape. Mandiant has observed these actors trending away from purely
opportunistic campaigns, which seek to maximize the volume of attacks, toward
campaigns which require greater complexity. Attacker behavior patterns have
begun to emerge which demonstrate adoption of tools, tactics and procedures
(TTPs) which are more consistent with more advanced threat groups. As defense
technology advances so do multifaceted extortion operators. The impetus to
maintain operations and increase monetary gains has forced these operators to
adopt new techniques and even more dramatic extortion demands. While attacker
objectives remain consistent, their methods have evolved, leading to greater
monetary gains for threat actors and a growing population of threat groups
seeking to replicate these successes.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 39
Beginning in November 2019 and increasing throughout 2020, Mandiant observed
threat actors combining ransomware operations with data theft extortion. During
these types of operations, malicious actors steal sensitive data before deploying
ransomware on the network and then threaten to release the stolen data if the
ransom is not paid. Actors use the release of sensitive data during negotiations
to drive up the price of extortion and secure more timely payments from a victim
organization. The exposure of data which triggers a notification requirement is
often a major concern during an organization’s incident response process. While
some stolen sets of data would not trigger regulatory reaction, these actors would
often prey upon the potential brand damage which could occur as a result in a loss
of confidence and trust from partners and customers.
Historically, post-compromise ransomware actors have used data theft to obtain
information that can expand their presence in a target network. However, they
are now seeking additional types of data to support their extortion operations.
As ransomware operators evolve into multifaceted extortion operators they seek
access to sensitive information which can provide enhanced leverage during
negotiations, and the opportunities to detect them increase dramatically. Mandiant
has observed these operators steal a diverse set of data from target environments,
including termination agreements, contracts, medical records and encryption
certificates. Depending on the organization’s degree of network segmentation,
access to the enclaves which would house these data types would require the use
of multiple credentials across disparate systems. Each system introduces further
opportunities for the attacker to be detected and evicted from the network prior
to any theft of sensitive data or activation of encryption tools.
Multifaceted extortion operators have used a wide range of tactics to increase
pressure on data theft victims. Operators of the MAZE ransomware threatened
to use stolen data to conduct targeted spam campaigns while the operators of
the Ragnar Locker ransomware used Facebook ads to shame victims. The most
common tactic was the creation and maintenance of name-and-shame sites
where these operators would post data stolen from victims who refused to pay
the extortion. Analysis of the content available on various shaming websites
from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020, highlights several trends among
victims; the data is obviously skewed toward those who chose not to acquiesce to
extortion demands. There is a distinct upward trend in both the number of victims
that have appeared on these sites (Fig. 1) and the number of groups using this
methodology to pressure victims.
This method of combining ransomware and data theft has proven successful for
several multifaceted extortion operations. Consequently, other threat actors have
attempted to follow suit. MAZE operators started the shaming website trend
in December 2019 and in February 2020, SODINOKIBI and DOPPELPAYEMER
followed suit with their own versions of shaming websites. By March 2020, NEMTY,
NEFILIM, CLOP, Sekhmet and m1x operators also started using shaming websites.
Since then, there has been an average of at least one new shaming website each
month through September 2020. Based on these shaming websites, media outlets
and Mandiant incident response engagements, Mandiant Threat Intelligence has
identified more than 800 alleged multifaceted extortion victims who likely had
data stolen. This number has continued to grow steadily as more operators have
started websites to support extortion demands and data publishing.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 40
Dec
2019
Figure 1.
Percentage of
victims from
December 2019 to
September 2020.
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Jan Feb Mar April May Jun Jul Aug Sep
2020
Feb
Mar April May Jun Jul Aug
Most of the victim organizations listed on shaming websites have been based in
the U.S. and spanned nearly every industry vertical, demonstrating the widespread
targeting basis of these operations. Based on available data, organizations within
the manufacturing sector have been impacted more than other industries. There
are likely several contributing factors including the perception these organizations
may be more likely to pay to prevent monetary losses due to production
downtime and their overall cyber security posture relative to other sectors. Several
ransomware families have also been deployed alongside scripts with process kill
lists for industrial processes. Other industries experiencing frequent multifaceted
extortion attacks included professional services, retail, technology, financial
services, healthcare and construction and materials.
Over the last few years, traditional malware based ransomware has evolved
into multifaceted extortion through repeated and deliberate operations costing
organizations and governments millions of dollars. In response, many organizations
took steps to limit the potential impact of broad-scale encryption by ensuring their
disaster recovery plans included a similar scenario. However attacker-encrypted
files is just one of many impacts victims face in a multifacted extortion incident.
New technologies and better visibility into the methodologies used by attack
groups have increased opportunities for early detection. As defensive security
evolves and organizations continue to invest in a broader security position,
attackers are guaranteed to modify their operations to keep pace with those
changes. Until multifaceted extortion operations can be reliably interrupted
through legal and policy changes, the burden of their effects will continue to fall on
organizations and the security teams which support them.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 41