~~Phishing and~~ ~~other malicious~~ ~~email~~
Threat to identity
In 2020, the FBI IC3 Report [ Note 9 ] identified phishing
as the top crime type for victim complaints. The
number of reports doubled compared to the
previous year. Phishing poses a significant threat
to both businesses and individuals, and credential
phishing was leveraged in many of the most
damaging attacks last year.
Note 9 https://www.ic3.gov/Media/PDF/AnnualReport/2020_IC3Report.pdf
From our investigations on online organized crime
networks involved in business email compromise
(BEC), we noted broad diversification of how
credentials are obtained, verified, and later used
that may explain the increased threat. Threat actors
are increasing their automation and purchasing
tools to increase the value of their criminal
activities. Credentials belonging to unsuspecting
victims could be obtained from phishing websites
that impersonate a myriad of online services,
automatically scraping and parsing logs belonging
to infected devices that record the keys typed on
keyboards to guessing where credentials from one
breached online service were reused on another.
For each credential, there are services that enrich
the information on the identity with additional
details on the person’s identity that includes
name, company they work for, roles, seniority in
company, and industry associated to the company.
With this information, the identity could be used
in BEC attacks, to send unsolicited messages
(spam), to gather sensitive information, or to host
phishing websites in related online accounts. Even
when one attack occurs, accounts may be resold
after automated systems verify that they remain
compromised.
Identity is further threatened by impersonation
as may be seen in BEC attacks where one party to
a financial transaction is impersonated to divert
payments to an unauthorized recipient. Our
investigations identified that threat actors would
monitor financially inclined messages to find an
identity to impersonate and thereafter register
homoglyph/imposter domains to resemble the email
of the person being impersonated. In this case, the
person whose credentials were stolen would cause
another person to become a victim.
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
be redirected to a legitimate final site—such as
the real Office 365 login page—leaving the user
unaware that actors have obtained their credentials.
Meanwhile, the entered credentials are stored or
sent to the attacker for later abuse or sale.
Attackers also use consent phishing to send users
links that, if clicked, will grant the attacker access
and permissions to applications, such as via OAuth
2.0 authorization protocol. In these instances, users
may unwittingly grant the attackers permissions to
applications that enable them to access a wealth of
sensitive information.
The number of phishing emails observed in
Microsoft Exchange global mail flow increased
during the period from June 2020 through June

We saw a pronounced surge in November

potentially related to holiday-themed phishing, and
a subsequent decrease over the US winter holidays,
potentially indicating that attackers send fewer
messages when many people are not working.
While all industries receive phishing emails, some
verticals within those industries tend to receive more
phishing campaigns than others. The verticals most
affected by phishing may change month to month
depending on several factors, including attacker
objectives, availability of leaked email addresses,
or current events regarding specific sectors and
industries.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
Emails determined as phish
Top 10 verticals affected by phishing (Defender detections, June 2021)
What we’re seeing
Types of malicious emails
Whether their goal is to phish credentials, redirect
a wire transfer to their own bank account, or
download malware onto a machine, attackers are
most likely to utilize email as their initial entry
vector for a campaign. While a lot of focus is given
to credential phishing, malicious emails are used in
multiple types of cyber incidents. Microsoft security
researchers observe the following three most
common types of malicious emails:
PHISHING
Phishing is the most common type of malicious
email observed in our threat signals. These emails
are designed to trick an individual into sharing
sensitive information, such as usernames and
passwords, with an attacker. To do this, attackers
will craft emails using a variety of themes, such
as productivity tools, password resets, or other
notifications with a sense of urgency to lure a user
to click on a link.
The phishing webpages used in these attacks may
utilize malicious domains, such as those purchased
and operated by the attacker, or compromised
domains, where the attacker abuses a vulnerability
in a legitimate website to host malicious content.
The phishing sites frequently copy well-known,
legitimate login pages, such as Office 365 or Google,
to trick users into inputting their credentials. Once
the user inputs their credentials, they will often
21
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Malware emails per week
There has been an overall downward trend in the number of emails containing malware.
Top 15 Defender detections (June 2021)
Spyware designed to steal credentials was the most common type of malware observed through email
delivery and was detected three times as often as the next highest detection.
MALWARE DELIVERY
Malware delivery is another example of how threat
actors utilize emails for their objectives. A variety
of malware variants, such as Agent Tesla, IcedID,
Trickbot, and Qakbot, use email as a primary method
of distribution. These emails will use either links or
attachments to deliver malware and many times use
techniques that overlap with phishing emails. For
example, both malware delivery email and phishing
email may use links that direct to a CAPTCHA test to
evade detection from security technologies.
Since malware does not rely on user interaction in
the same way phishing does, attackers can design
their delivery to be less noticeable to the user. For
example, when using attachments as a delivery
method, attackers may use a decoy document
with macros that, when enabled by the recipient,
download the malware in the background without
the user’s knowledge. In these cases, the user may
think that the document is broken or isn’t intended
for them and may be completely unaware that
malicious software is running on their machine.
One of the most common methods of malware
delivery observed in the past year was through
password-protected archive files. These emails
contain archive files, such as ZIP attachments
that are password protected, to prevent security
technologies from detonating and analyzing
them. However, the passwords for these files are
often included in the body of the email to enable
the recipient to open the files and download the
malware. By using these archive files to house the
malicious document—frequently an Excel or Word
document—the attackers can use a unique archive
file for every recipient, making it more difficult for
defenders to fully scope a campaign.
Interestingly, between July 2020 and June 2021
we observed an overall downward trend in the
number of emails containing malware, indicating
that attackers may be using other means of entry.
In addition, a few notable malware takedowns—
namely, Trickbot and Emotet—may have contributed
to this overall decline. A large spike in October is
associated with the distribution of those malware
variants, and the rapid decrease following the spike
aligns to when the Trickbot malware was taken down
by Microsoft.
The malware that attackers distribute via email
changes regularly for a variety of reasons, including
malware takedowns and attacker objectives. As
shown in the chart on Defender detections for
June 2021, the most prolific malware observed by
Microsoft was Agent Tesla, which is a credential
stealing spyware. The second most observed
malware, Tisifi, which identifies social engineering
lures, was seen only one third as much as Agent
Tesla. EncDoc and CVE-2017-11882 as the third
and fifth top detections indicate that attackers still
favor malicious documents as a common method
of delivering a variety of threats. The fourth top
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
22
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
f
fi
Domains created specifically for attacks tend
to be active for shorter periods, and with fewer
malicious URLs, than attacks that abuse legitimate
infrastructure. Over the last year, Microsoft
SmartScreen has seen an increase in attacks that
begin and end within as little as an hour or two.
Malicious email techniques
Attackers have adapted over time to make their
emails more likely to evade detections and
f protections by utilizing aspects of legitimate
fi business emails. Defenders need to protect the
company but also have a duty to maintain the flow
of business—and attackers rely on this fact to get
their foot in the door. In the last year, Microsoft
security researchers have observed attackers using
numerous techniques across multiple malicious
email campaigns to make emails appear more
legitimate to both end users and protection
technologies.
detection, HTML/Phish, includes only phishing
emails that use an HTML attachment. These types of
phishing frequently take the form of fake voicemail
phishing messages.
BUSINESS EMAIL COMPROMISE
While not the most prolific type of malicious email
in terms of quantity, BEC has proven to be the
most financially impactful type of cybercrime. [ Note 10 ] BEC
occurs when an attacker pretends to be a legitimate
business account—utilizing either a compromised
email address, a lookalike domain they have f
registered, or a free email service such as Hotmail or fi
Gmail—and sends emails designed to trick recipients
into taking some financial action, handing over
sensitive information, or providing assets, such as
gift cards, to the attacker.
The most common type of BEC observed by
Microsoft in the past year was gift card scams. In
these scams, attackers will usually create a multitude
of free email accounts, changing the display name
depending on the target, though attackers have
also registered their own domains for these attacks
or have created target-specific free email accounts.
They will then pretend to be someone the recipient
works with (usually their boss or an executive at
their company) and ask them to purchase gift cards
(often with company funds). Frequently, these emails
suggest that the sender wants them for a family
member’s birthday gift or for employees as rewards.
The recipient is typically asked to send the digital
gift cards to the attacker once purchased, but we
have also seen attackers asking the user to buy
physical gift cards and send a photo of the code on
the back of the card, enabling the attacker to resell
them online or trade them for cryptocurrency.
A much more sophisticated and financially damaging
type of BEC is wire transfer fraud. In this type of
BEC, actors will insert themselves into expected
financial transactions and ask the recipient to adjust f
the bank account information on an outgoing wire fi
transfer. The actors will masquerade as the intended
recipient of the funds, so this does not seem out of
the ordinary to the victim. Once the victim wires the
money to the new account, it is withdrawn by the
actors and may be difficult to retrieve. Companies
can help to avoid this type of scam by ensuring that
financial policies require verification for changing
accounts. Finance employees should verify via a
means other than email—such as from a known,
trusted phone number with the recipient—before
making account number changes that originate
from emails. Additionally, utilizing impersonation
protections features in email security products can
help prevent attackers from successfully conducting
this type of scam.
Detecting web-based phishing
In the past year, web-based phishing attacks
have continued to become more sophisticated.
Phishing kits used by web-based phishing attacks
typically use images, context-based content, and
other advanced techniques to avoid detection.
Our machine learning (ML) models and network
heuristics must continuously evolve to maintain
effective protection. The language used by attackers
has also improved significantly; ~~past user guidance~~
~~to look for poor spelling and grammar is now~~
~~less efective, particularly against targeted, more~~ f
~~advanced attacks. Modern kits are sufciently~~ fi
~~sophisticated to masquerade as legitimate content~~
~~in their use of spelling, grammar, and imagery.~~
~~Phishers are increasingly leveraging legitimate~~
~~infrastructure, but this pattern still accounts for a~~
~~minority of detected phishing attacks.~~ Microsoft
SmartScreen detected more than a million unique
domains used in web-based phishing attacks in
the last year, of which compromised domains
represented just over 5%. This 5% of domains
typically host phishing attacks on legitimate websites
without disrupting any legitimate traffic so that their
attack remains hidden for as long as possible.
f
fi
Note 10 https://www.ic3.gov/Media/PDF/AnnualReport/2020_IC3Report.pdf; https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/06/14/behind-the-scenes-of-business-email-compromise-using-cross-domain-threat-data-to-disrupt-a-large-bec-infrastructure/
f
fi
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
f
fi
23
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services  Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware  Malicious domains  Adversarial machine learning
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
24
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Some common techniques observed over the past year:
COMPROMISED SENDERS > COMPROMISED SERVICES
For years, attackers have used compromised senders to perpetuate phishing email chains, as they use the
victim’s email account to send additional phishing emails. While this is still extremely prevalent, many companies
have begun utilizing MFA, which reduces the effectiveness of this method. Attackers therefore are adjusting
their methods to begin compromising entire email services, such as when NOBELIUM gained access to an email
marketing solution that enabled the attacker to send as multiple, legitimate addresses. [ Note 11 ]
Phishing email using compromised service on behalf of legitimate companies
Note 11 https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/05/27/new-sophisticated-email-based-attack-from-nobelium/
ABUSE OF LEGITIMATE INFRASTRUCTURE
Defenders have often told their end users to verify aspects within an email were legitimate before interacting
with that email, such as the sender and any links within the email. This advice is still valuable, but sometimes
the links and senders can look legitimate but contain malicious content. Attackers are shifting to abusing
legitimate infrastructure to mask the malicious content in their emails. For sender addresses, attackers may
register trial tenants for services such as Office 365, which make their email appear much more legitimate.
Additionally, attackers are using ways to mask the malicious domain in an email, either by using open redirects
from legitimate domains or by abusing legitimate hosting platforms such as Google Drive or OneDrive. In these
cases, it may be tricky for users to know when an email is legitimate or malicious.
Legitimate infrastructure abuse
Attackers abuse legitimate contact forms
on websites to send emails, and legitimate
Google sites to host malware.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
25
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
FAKE REPLIES
In addition to users being instructed to verify aspects of the email, such as the sender or links before interacting
with them, users have also been instructed not to interact with emails they are not expecting to receive. This is
still extremely valuable advice, but attackers are aware of this as well and have shifted their strategies to find
ways to convince recipients that they are expecting the email. One way that they do this is by crafting fake reply
emails. In these cases, the attacker will take the contents of a previous email from a compromised mailbox, or
will craft an entirely new email, and include it in the body of the email in a way that appears that the new email
is a reply. Users who have jobs that require them to email dozens of people per day may not remember each
email they have sent. Seeing a fake reply may convince them that they are expecting the email and cause them
to interact with malicious links or attachments. Utilizing email security features that can notify a user when
an email is being sent from a user they have not interacted with before can help mitigate this technique. This
technique is a favorite of malware variants such as Emotet and IcedID and is also frequently used in BEC emails.
Fake reply email
Gift card scam BEC email using
fake reply to trick the user into
thinking they were expecting
this email.
DEFENSE EVASION
While attackers are focusing their techniques on convincing the recipient to interact with an email, they are also
aware that all that effort will be worthless if the email is never delivered to the victim. Because of this, threat
actors are developing new means of defense evasion in email. It used to be enough for an attacker to include
a password-protected archive file to evade detection, but most security technologies can now input passwords
included in the email to detonate them and identify malicious content. Attackers have shifted to including
CAPTCHAs and legitimate login screens for services such as Microsoft or Google that prevent detection
technologies from reaching the malicious content.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
26
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
The digital journey of stolen credentials
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Secret phishers: The hidden
economy of sophisticated
phish kits
It is a long-held perception among research and
business communities that victim credentials are
delivered to the individual (or group) operating
phishing campaigns. Researchers within the
security community [ Note 12 ] have begun to identify more
sophisticated kits in which not only are victim
credentials sent to the phishers running a phishing
campaign, but they are also likely going back
to the kit’s originating author or a sophisticated
intermediary who has modified the kit with a hidden
collection account before redistributing the kit. The
Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit (DCU) has seen several
variations of this technique.
Note 12 https://www.wmcglobal.com/blog/phishing-kit-exfiltration-methods
This stratification of the cybercrime world is an
increased threat to business infrastructure as
phish kit authors are more technically skilled than
the phishers and have a much broader reach by
orders of magnitude. The anonymity of the dark
web enables this technique. Phishing has generally
been known to be a scheme in which a phisher
(or group of phishers) buys a kit on a dark web
market, obtains infrastructure components such as
a server, a domain to host the imitation site, and an
email account or other endpoint to receive victim
information. Once the infrastructure is assembled,
they essentially just “stick their poles in the water”—
the entire process is designed to be as easy as
possible by the authors and distributers of kits.
Although it is important not to overgeneralize, these
plug-and-play phishers have largely been viewed
as lower-level coders compared to the much more
sophisticated phish kit author and mastermind of
the overall operation.
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Phish kits and credential harvesting
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
29
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning