4.1. Turkey background: information controls and surveillance
In spite of being a parliamentary democracy with decades of multi-party elections,
Turkey’s government is characterized by corruption, human rights abuses, and autocratic
tendencies on the part of the current Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. Turkey’s
military has traditionally been an important and occasional overbearing presence in
domestic politics, with the country experiencing several coup attempts. Information
controls played an important part in the most recent such attempt, which was foiled by
President Erdoğan in July 2016. Prior to the coup attempt, Turkish authorities routinely
throttled access to prominent social media sites, such as Twitter and Facebook. Erdoğan
used Apple’s Facetime video calling application during the coup attempt to plead with the
Turkish public to resist the plotters. While restrictions on social media were softened to
facilitate popular opposition to the coup, the openness was short lived, with Internet
censorship returning (and even increasing) after Erdoğan successfully re-asserted his
authority.
Although there is widespread and growing popularity of social media in Turkey, which
provides citizens with an alternative to conservative state-controlled mainstream media,
the country has one of the most extensive Internet censorship regimes in the world. ISPs
routinely throttle access to popular social media, make frequent requests to service
providers to remove content, and even implement occasional regional shutdowns.
According to Twitter’s transparency report, Turkey led the world with 2,710 removal
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 12/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
requests in the first six months of 2017. Although Turkey’s numerous security threats,
and in particular those related to Islamist and other terrorist attacks, are provided as
justifications for such expansive controls, Internet censorship has included a broad range
of other content such as criticism of the Erdoğan regime.
The first Internet-related legislation in Turkey was passed in 2007. It is called “Law No.
5651, Regulation of Publications on the Internet and Suppression of Crimes Committed
by means of Such Publications,” or “Internet Law” for short. The Internet Law introduced
Internet censorship across a range of content categories and mandated service providers
to monitor online content passing through their infrastructure. Additional laws and
broader information controls were applied in the aftermath of the 2013 Gezi protests,
including Law No. 6532, passed in April 2014, which criminalized “the leaking and
publication of secret official information, punishable by a prison term of up to nine
years.” The law authorizes the Turkish intelligence agency, Milli İstihbarat Teşkilatı
(MIT), to “collect data relating to external intelligence, national defense, terrorism,
international crimes and cyber security passing via telecommunication channels.” These
laws and practices have imposed strict responsibilities on ISPs to block and disrupt access
to targeted URLs (in some cases through DNS poisoning), and to monitor and archive
Internet traffic for two years. The responsibilities have, in turn, prompted the acquisition
of mass and targeted surveillance technologies. A 2014 Citizen Lab report traced activity
related to Hacking Team spyware to an IP address owned by Türk Telekom, and a 2015
report mapped FinFisher spyware to Turkey.
MIT’s practical implementation of the 2014 national security laws requires the
cooperation of the Turkish telecommunications sector, which is centralized around Türk
Telekom. While technically a private company, Türk Telekom is heavily controlled by the
ruling AKP party. The AKP exerts influence over Türk Telekom through its supposed
independent regulator, the Information and Communications Authority (which is itself
controlled by the state), as well as a large ownership stake controlled by the Turkish
Treasury department. The government’s direct influence over Türk Telekom was
demonstrated following the July 2016 coup attempt, when several Türk Telekom senior
executives were purged from the company.