Overview
We’ve conducted all sorts of investigations into cybersecurity
incidents and data breaches over the years. None have been
more challenging or perplexing than Cyber-Espionage attacks.
Indeed, Cyber-Espionage threat actors pose a unique
challenge to cyberdefenders and incident responders.
Through advanced techniques and a specific focus, these
determined threat actors seek to swiftly and stealthily gain
access to heavily defended environments. Depending on
their goals, they move laterally through the network, obtain
targeted access and data, and exit without being detected.
Or, they stay back and maintain covert persistence.
Often, threat actors leave little to no indication of their
actions, let alone objectives, to avoid detection and thwart
response efforts. Many choose not to move immediately
toward their objectives, opting to embed themselves in the
environment where they persist quietly until their next move.
Threat actors conducting espionage can range from nationstates (or state-affiliated entities) to business competitors,
and in some cases, organized criminal groups. Their targets
are both the public sector (governments) and private sector
(corporations). Their reasons? National security, political
positioning and economic competitive advantage. They seek
national secrets, intellectual property and sensitive information.
The Cyber-Espionage threat actor modus operandi includes
gaining unauthorized access, maintaining a low (or no) profile
and compromising sensitive assets and data. Technology
makes espionage actors fast, efficient, evasive and difficult to
attribute. In a nutshell, for the threat actor, Cyber-Espionage
is an opportunity with relatively low risk (of being discovered),
low cost (in terms of resources) and high potential (for payoff).
“The internet has made us richer, freer,
connected and informed in ways its founders
could not have dreamt of. It has also become a
vector of attack, espionage, crime and harm.”
George Osborne, British Politician and Newspaper Editor1
In seeking to accomplish their objectives, Cyber-Espionage
threat actors leverage three primary actions:

Social engineering by targeting employees through

activities such as phishing

Hacking systems and networks by using backdoors and

command and control (C2) functions to establish and
maintain access

Deploying malicious software, such as Trojan downloaders,

to extend their capabilities
Within the DBIR dataset, we identified the industries most
impacted over the past seven years (2014-2020 DBIR
timeframe) by Cyber-Espionage breaches: Education, Financial,
Information, Manufacturing, Mining + Utilities, Professional and
Public. We focused on these industries because they were the
most often targeted by these threat actors.
Now, if your industry isn’t featured within this report, you’re
not off the hook. Cyber-Espionage threat actors may still
be targeting your assets and data—we may just not have
visibility into those attacks. If you’ve got sensitive, classified,
proprietary or internal secrets that you’d like to keep from
getting into the wrong hands, turn the page and read on.
1 ‘Chancellor’s speech to GCHQ on cybersecurity’: public-sector.co.uk/article/ff8fa006cdcd35f4cf9ef4e030e08ff1
4 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report