Abstract
I got a letter from the government the other day
Opened it and read it
It said they were suckers
Public Enemy, Black Steel and the Hour of Chaos
This report covers a campaign of phishing and malware which we have named
“Operation Manul” and which, based on the available evidence, we believe is likely to 1
have been carried out on behalf of the government of Kazakhstan against journalists,
dissidents living in Europe, their family members, known associates, and their lawyers.
Many of the targets are involved in litigation with the government of Kazakhstan in
European and American courts whose substance ranges from attempts by the
government of Kazakhstan to unmask the administrators behind an anonymous website
that publishes leaks alleging government corruption (Kazaword) to allegations of 2
kidnapping.
Our research suggests links between this campaign and other campaigns that have been
attributed to an Indian security company called Appin Security Group. A hired actor is
consistent with our findings on the Command and Control servers related to this
campaign, which included web-based control panels for multiple RATs, suggesting that
several campaigns were being run at once. A hired actor may also explain the generic and
uninspired nature of the phishing, which often took the form of an email purporting to
contain an invoice or a legal document with an attachment containing a blurry image.
An investigation by the Swiss federal police of some of the emails linked to Operation
Manul concludes that they were sent from IP addresses in India, which also suggests a
link to Appin.
Hundreds of leaked emails published on the Kazaword website also suggest possible links
between this campaign and Arcanum Global Intelligence, a private intelligence company
with headquarters in Zurich, which was allegedly hired by the government of Kazakhstan
to perform a surveillance and data extraction operation against a high-profile dissident.
It was ​ Respublika’s reporting on these connections which led the government of
Kazakhstan to request an injunction in a New York court to bar the website from
publishing the “stolen” emails.
1 We chose the name Operation Manul because Manul cat is native to the steppes of Kazakhstan, and that this
campaign seems to be targeting members of the Kazakhstan diaspora and their associates. We also like cats.
2 https://kazaword.wordpress.com/
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION EFF.ORG 3