Automatic Payload Extraction
As previously discussed, it is increasingly common for malware authors to obfuscate their
initial payloads. While using executable packers that can compress and obfuscate files to
accomplish this is nothing new, it becomes problematic when it’s used in combination
with evasion strategies, because there is no static or dynamic data that’s useful for an
accurate detection.
There are infinite combinations of strategies for encoding, compressing, encrypting or
downloading additional stages for execution. The ability to craft signatures for these
payloads is obviously an important way that our analysts can catch lots of different
malware components from frameworks like Cobalt Strike. If we can catch them in
memory, it ultimately doesn’t matter if the malware decides not to execute.
The following simplified diagram in Figure 7 shows an example of what we might see in a
couple of stages that were never present in the initial executable file.
Figure 7. Typical stages we might see in a packed malware executable.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/cobalt-strike-memory-analysis/ 11/19
12/7/22, 9:10 AM Blowing Cobalt Strike Out of the Water With Memory Analysis
On the left side of the diagram, we see an example of a shellcode stage. Although the term
“shellcode” was originally coined for hand crafted assembly utilized in exploits to pop a
shell on a target system, the word has evolved to encompass any blobs of custom
assembly written for nefarious purposes. Some malware stages are blobs of custom
assembly with no discernable executable structure. A common pattern for malware
authors taking this approach is to dynamically resolve all of the function pointers into a
table for ease of access.
On the right side of the diagram, we see that the later stage is an example of a well-formed
executable. Some malware stages or payloads are well-formed executables. These can be
loaded by the OS via the system API, or the malware author might use their own PE
loader if they’re trying to be stealthy in avoiding calling any APIs to do this for them.