~~Tracking nation~~ ~~state threats~~
Microsoft tracks nation state activities to protect
our customers and our platforms and services.
We use a variety of metrics and sophisticated
data integration techniques to better understand
targeting, motivations, and customer impact. MSTIC
focuses on nation state actor activities because
these tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs)
often have significant impact on our customers and
are often unique, prompting deeper analysis and
creation of customized detections. Understanding
these TTPs also helps Microsoft better understand
downstream actors such as cybercriminals and
smaller nation states who often copy or reuse these
methods. DSU focuses on the victims identified
by MSTIC, connecting the victims of the attack to
political objectives and stated intelligence goals
of governments to help Microsoft provide fuller
context to the world about why these nation state
attacks occur.
We focus on nation state activities regardless of
platform, targeted victim, or geographical region,
and we maintain visibility and active threat hunting
worldwide to write better detections for our
customers. We also analyze why nation state actors
are pursuing particular victims, sectors, or regions.
Putting it all together, the information presented
here provides a snapshot of our defensive efforts
on behalf of our affected customers. It is important
to note that even if a particular industry sector
or geographic region is not represented in the
following information, nation state activity spans
nearly every industry sector and geographic region.
In other words, protections against these tactics are
critical for every organization and individual. Our
intelligence is impacted by the degree to which our
products and platforms are utilized in a particular
geography or sector.
49
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Tracking nation state threats What we're seeing Analysis of nation state activity this year Private sector offensive actors Comprehensive protections required
Our approach
Microsoft uses a five-pronged approach to disrupt
nation state actors—providing direct customer
notifications, leveraging technology to detect and
defend, taking technical action against malicious
operations, pursuing legal action, and participating
in public policy discourse—and each one plays an
important role in our commitment to protecting our
customers and the ecosystem at large.
1. Empowering customers
Microsoft leverages its NSN process to inform
customers of targeting or compromise from
nation state actors we track, providing actionable
information for customers to rapidly respond and
protect themselves. Microsoft also provides alerts
to industry sectors and customer segments to help
raise awareness of malicious activity and guidance
on how to respond.
2. Leveraging technology
Microsoft’s cumulative knowledge of the global
threat landscape enables our products and services
to constantly create and update new security
product detections, helping to protect and defend
against nation state activities at scale. These
collective defenses represent the most effective
method to counter nation state threats, as they
are informed by the extensive threat intelligence
resources built into each product and enabled by
world-class engineering.
3. Taking technical action against malicious
operations
From time to time, Microsoft will have sufficient
information to warrant a one-time deletion or
shutdown of infrastructure or assets associated with
a nation state attacker. By taking proactive action
against malicious infrastructure, the actor loses
visibility, capability, and access across a range of
assets previously under their control, forcing them
to rebuild.
4. Digital Crimes Unit
One of Microsoft’s unique resources in the fight
against nation state actors is the Digital Crimes
Unit (DCU). Using litigation to seize domains and
assets used by nation state actors against Microsoft
customers, the DCU has been instrumental in
shutting down those attack vectors. These cases
have led to the takedown of hundreds of domains
and the protection of thousands of customers, and
Microsoft remains one of the only companies willing
to pursue legal action against nation state actors
in order to seize infrastructure and disrupt attacks.
Lessons learned from the cases are shared with
Microsoft engineering teams to help improve our
operational and technical disruption capabilities.
5. Informing public discourse and policy
Microsoft uses its voice to raise awareness about
nation state activities, highlighting the context and
impacts of the incidents and sharing context about
attacks and why they matter to the world. This helps
drive a broad discussion about what can be done
to combat malicious nation state activities across
government entities, NGOs, enterprises, academia,
and the public. Talking publicly about nation state
attacks is an important part of deterrence.
Guide to the nation state actors
discussed in this report
Throughout this chapter, we cite examples of nation
state actors to provide a deeper view into attack
targets, techniques, and analysis of motivations.
Microsoft identifies nation state activities by
chemical element names, just some of which are
shown in the following table together with the
countries of origin from which the actors operate.
This small sample of the total nation state actors
tracked by Microsoft represents those that were
most active in the last year and made most effective
use of the tactics detailed in this chapter.
Microsoft also tracks and investigates many
malicious activities that are either new or unknown
in origin to develop a full understanding of the
tactics, techniques, and objectives.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
When we take proactive action against malicious
infrastructure, the actor loses visibility, capability,
and access across a range of assets previously
under their control, forcing them to rebuild.
50
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Tracking nation state threats What we're seeing Analysis of nation state activity this year Private sector offensive actors Comprehensive protections required
Sample of nation state actors and their activities
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
51
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Tracking nation state threats What we're seeing Analysis of nation state activity this year Private sector offensive actors Comprehensive protections required