2. SUMMARY
The Turla Outlook backdoor has two interesting functionalities.
First, it steals emails by forwarding all outgoing emails to the attackers. It mainly targets Microsoft
Outlook, a widely used mail client, but also targets The Bat! [7], a mail client very popular in Eastern
Europe.
Second, it uses email messages as a transport layer for its Command & Control (C&C) protocol.
Data, such as files requested via a command of the backdoor, is exfiltrated in specially-crafted PDF
documents attached to emails, and commands are also received in PDF attachments. Thus, its behavior
is particularly stealthy. It is important to note that no vulnerabilities were used either in PDF readers nor
in Outlook. What actually happens is that the malware is able to decode data from the PDF documents
and interpret it as commands for the backdoor.
The targets are in line with traditional Turla operations. We identified several European governments
and defense companies compromised with this particular backdoor. Thus, it seems the attackers use
it to maintain persistence in the most restricted networks where well-configured firewalls, or other
network security systems, could effectively block traditional C&C communication through HTTP(S).
Figure 1 shows that the strings within the malware include some government-related top level domains.
MFA stands for Ministry of Foreign Affairs, .gouv is the subdomain used by the French government
(.gouv.fr) and ocse refers to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.
4 Turla Outlook Backdoor // Analysis of an unusual Turla backdoor
Figure 1 // Government related domains found within the malware strings
Based on our research and telemetry, we identified this backdoor as having been in the wild since
at least 2013. As usual with Turla, it is not possible to rely on compilation timestamps as they are gen­
erally faked. However, we believe the first versions have been compiled earlier than 2013 as the version
released in 2013 was already pretty advanced. We then found a more basic version, whose compilation
timestamp is 2009, but we were unable to identify its release date with reasonable accuracy.
Figure 2 is the timeline based on our telemetry and publicly available information.