The Pupy backdoor
Pupy is an open source, multi-platform (Windows, Linux, OSX, Android), multi-function
backdoor. The backdoor is mainly written in Python and uses code from other open
source attack tools like PowerSploit, Mimikatz, laZagne, etc. Pupy can generate
backconnect or bindport payloads in multiple formats: PE executables (x86/x64) for
Windows, ELF binary/.so for Linux, reflective DLLs (x86/x64), pure Python files,
PowerShell, apk, and Rubber Ducky script (Windows).
The malicious DLL deployed by NewsBeef contains Python code, a Python interpreter,
and the MSVC runtime library as well as code that loads the Python interpreter, runs
Python code and exports some functions for Python. A configuration string contains
base64-encoded Python code (packed with zlib) with transport configuration and
information about C2 server addresses.
When initiated, the Python code attempts to retrieve and use SOCKS/HTTP proxy
settings from the victim’s computer. The Python code then tries to initiate a reverse
connection to the C2 server (139.59.46[.]154:3543) using a TCP protocol with RSA+AES
traffic encryption and obfs3 transport using default keys from Pupy sources.
https://securelist.com/twas-the-night-before/91599/ 10/13
7/5/2019 ‘Twas the night before | Securelist
After a successful connection, NewsBeef Pupy sends information about the infected
computer and waits for commands (which take the form of modules) from the C2 server.
The C2 server can send modules with Python code and compiled Python C extensions.
The main functionality of the backdoor is implemented in packages (Python code,
compiled Python C extensions, compiled executable files) and modules (Python code).
Modules can directly access Python objects on the remote client using the RPyC
module. The Python modules win32com, win32api, and ctypes are used to interact with
the Win32 API. Attackers can use standard modules or write their own. All modules are
executed in the memory (a Pupy process can migrate between processes using the
corresponding module).