Healthcare Sector Targeting
APT41 activity aimed at medical device companies
and pharmaceuticals is demonstrative of the group's
capacity to collect sensitive and highly valuable
intellectual property (IP), although we have not observed
evidence of IP theft since late 2015. The healthcare
sector was targeted in a manner that is highly specific
and most likely indicative of focused taskings from
sponsoring organizations with a stake in the healthcare
market. Targeted information included pharmaceutical
development, clinical trial data, and intelligence
regarding a medical subsidiary's parent company.
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 13
The targeting of these organizations just ahead of the
release of products requiring a long R&D cycle can confer
a significant market advantage to a competitor. The
observed activities are indicative of ongoing efforts to
support China's own R&D efforts in support of Made in
China 2025.

Between July 2014 and May 2016, APT41 targeted a

medical devices subsidiary of a large corporation.
–
Although APT41 initially targeted the parent company,
30 percent of the victimized hosts were related to
a subsidiary specialized in manufacturing medical
devices. Password strings and spoofed domains
leveraged in the operation signify a narrow tasking
to target the subsidiary instead of the parent
corporation.
– We have some indication based on the nature of hosts
targeted that APT41 was interested in information
technology employees and software used by the
medical device subsidiary.
–
A keylogger dubbed GEARSHIFT was first deployed at
the medical device company. A digital certificate from
the victim was compromised and used to sign malware
used in an operation against a separate biotech
company detailed below.

A biotech company undergoing acquisition was

targeted by APT41 in May 2015. Highly sensitive
information about corporate operations, including
human resources data, tax information, and acquisitionrelated documents, were targeted.
–
Clinical trials data of developed drugs, academic data,
and R&D funding-related documents were exfiltrated.
–
The time frame, use of the same GEARSHIFT sample,
and a digital certificate from the aforementioned
medical device company provide some indication that
these two campaigns were conducted by the same
operator concurrently.

In 2018, we observed APT41 target a third healthcare

company, although their goals during this compromise
were unclear.
14 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION