T
undetermined number of mobile users around the world. Lookout researchers have done deep analysis on
a live iOS sample of the malware, detailed in this report. Citizen Lab’s investigation links the software and
infrastructure to that of NSO Group which offers a product called Pegasus solution. Pegasus is professionally developed
and highly advanced in its use of zero-day vulnerabilities, code obfuscation, and encryption. It uses sophisticated func
tion hooking to subvert OS- and application-layer security in voice/audio calls and apps including Gmail, Facebook,
WhatsApp, Facetime, Viber, WeChat, Telegram, Apple’s built-in messaging and email apps, and others. It steals the victim’s
contact list and GPS location, as well as personal, Wi-Fi, and router passwords stored on the device. The iOS version of the
attack uses what we refer to as Trident, an exploit of three related zero-day vulnerabilities in iOS, which Apple patched in
iOS 9.3.5, available as of the publishing of this report.
According to news reports, NSO Group sells weaponized software that targets mobile phones to governments and has
been operating since 2010, according to its LinkedIn page. The Pegasus spyware has existed for a significant amount of
time, and is advertised and sold for use on high-value targets for multiple purposes, including high-level espionage on
iOS, Android, and Blackberry.
This spyware is extremely sophisticated and modular, in addition to allowing customization. It uses strong encryption to
protect itself from detection by traditional security tools and has a vigorous monitoring and self-destruct mechanism.
Lookout’s analysis determined that the malware exploits three zero-day vulnerabilities, Trident, in Apple’s iOS:
1. CVE-2016-4655: Memory Corruption in Webkit  - A vulnerability in Safari WebKit allows the attacker to compro
mise the device when the user clicks on a link.
2. CVE-2016-4656: Kernel Information Leak  - A kernel base mapping vulnerability that leaks information to the
attacker that allows him to calculate the kernel’s location in memory.
3. CVE-2016-4657: Kernel Memory corruption leads to Jailbreak  - 32 and 64 bit iOS kernel-level vulnerabilities that
allow the attacker to silently jailbreak the device and install surveillance software.
The attack sequence begins with a simple phishing scheme: send a text (or Twitter or other type of) message with a
benign-looking URL, user clicks on link, open web browser, load page, exploit a browser or operating system vulnerability,
install software to gather information and to ensure that the software stays installed on the device (“persistence”). As soon
as the targeted victim clicks the link, the attack occurs silently, with no indication to the user or device administrators that
anything has occurred or that any new processes are running.
The Pegasus software is highly configurable: depending on the country of use and feature sets purchased by the user of
the spyware, the surveillance capabilities include remotely accessing text messages, iMessages, calls, emails, logs, and
more from apps including Gmail, Facebook, Skype, WhatsApp, Viber, Facetime, Calendar, Line, Mail.Ru, WeChat,
Surespot, Tango, Telegram, and others.
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS OF PEGASUS SPYWARE | 3
Based on artifacts in the code, this spyware has been in the wild for more than two years. The exploits have configuration
settings that go all the way back to iOS 7, which was released in 2013 and superseded in 2014.
Pegasus takes advantage of how integrated mobile devices are in our lives and the combination of features only available
on mobile — always connected (WiFi, 3G/4G), voice communications, camera, email, messaging, GPS, passwords, and
contact lists. As a result of its functional modularity, the breadth of communications and user data it monitors, and the tai
lored methods it instruments into other applications to exfiltrate data from them, to date, Pegasus is the most sophisticat
ed privately-developed attack Lookout has encountered on a mobile endpoint. It hooks into widely used secure messen
ger applications to copy cleartext data out of them before the user’s app can encrypt and send it. From the perspective
of the user and the people they’re communicating with, their communications are secure, while the administrator of the
Pegasus instance has secretly intercepted the clear text of their communication. Pegasus carries a high price tag averaging at
over $25,000 per target. In at least one instance, NSO Group sold 300 licenses for $8 million USD. [1]
This report presents the technical details of the attack from the beginning of the exploit chain to the end. It includes
analysis of the Trident zero-day iOS vulnerabilities that the toolkit was using to jailbreak the phone. We also look in-depth
at the components of the espionage software, and have exposed the type of capabilities that an advanced mobile attack
er using this software possesses.
Trident (the vulnerabilities disclosed in coordination with this report) were present in the latest versions of iOS, up to iOS
9.3.4, the latest iOS version as of August 2016 when we made these discoveries. Researchers from Lookout and Citizen
Lab responsibly disclosed the exploits and their related vulnerabilities to Apple. Given the severity of Trident,
Apple worked extremely quickly to patch these vulnerabilities and has released iOS 9.3.5 to address them. With the
release of the patched OS, we are publishing the technical details of the attack and exploits.
1 ~~h~~ ttp://www.prensa.com/locales/ruta-pago-NSO-Group_0_4266323503.html
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS OF PEGASUS SPYWARE | 4