Executive Summary
In September 2020, we began investigating a Microsoft Exchange server at a Kuwaiti organization
that a threat group compromised as part of a continued xHunt campaign. This investigation resulted
in the discovery of two new backdoors called TriFive and Snugy, which we discussed in a prior blog,
as well as a new webshell that we call BumbleBee that we will explain in greater detail in this blog.
We use this name because the color scheme of the BumbleBee webshell includes white, black and
yellow, as seen in Figure 1.
The actor used the BumbleBee webshell to upload and download files to and from the compromised
Exchange server, but more importantly, to run commands that the actor used to discover additional
systems and to move laterally to other servers on the network. We found BumbleBee hosted on an
internal Internet Information Services (IIS) web server on the same network as the compromised
Exchange server, as well as on two internal IIS web servers at two other Kuwaiti organizations. As
1/18
mentioned in our prior xHunt Campaign blog, we still do not know the initial infection vector used
to compromise the Exchange server, as this appears to have occurred prior to the logs we were able
to collect.
We observed the actor interacting directly with the BumbleBee webshell on the compromised
Exchange server of the Kuwaiti organization, as this server was accessible from the internet. The
actor used Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) provided by Private Internet Access when directly
accessing BumbleBee on internet-accessible servers. The actor would frequently switch between
different VPN servers to change the external IP address of the activity that the server would store in
the logs. Specifically, the actor changed the IP address to appear to be from different countries,
including Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal,
Sweden and the United Kingdom. We believe this is an attempt to evade detection and make
analysis of the malicious activities more difficult. We also observed the actor switching between
different operating systems and browsers, specifically Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome on
Windows 10, Windows 8.1 or Linux systems. This suggests the actor has access to multiple systems
and uses this to make analysis of the activities more difficult, or that there are multiple actors
involved, who have differing preferences for operating systems and browsers.
In addition to using VPNs, the actor used SSH tunnels to interact with BumbleBee webshells hosted
on internal IIS web servers that are not accessible directly from the internet at all three Kuwaiti
organizations. The commands executed on the servers via BumbleBee suggest that the actor used the
PuTTY Link (Plink) tool to create SSH tunnels to access services internal to the compromised
network. We observed the actor using Plink to create an SSH tunnel for TCP port 3389, which
suggests that the actor used the tunnel to access the system using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).
We also observed the actor creating SSH tunnels to internal servers for TCP port 80, which suggests
the actor used the tunnel to access internal IIS web servers. We believe that the actor accessed these
additional internal IIS web servers to leverage file uploading functionality in internal web
applications to install BumbleBee as a method of lateral movement.
Palo Alto Networks Next-Generation Firewall customers are protected from these xHunt-related
attacks with Threat Prevention, URL Filtering and DNS Security subscriptions.