2.1. Delivery
As far as we know the group behind Crouching Yeti delivers its malware using at least three
different methods.
1. Legitimate software installers
The first method uses a legitimate software installer repackaged to contain the malicious DLL.
Such modified self-extracting archives could have been uploaded directly to a compromised
server, replacing the original file, or sent to the victim by email.
One example of this method was a hijacked SwissRanger camera driver (libMesaSR version
1.0.14.706) that was used to drop the Sysmain backdoor to:
```
%APPDATA%\sydmain.dll
```
and set the Run registry value to load malicious DLL upon next system startup.
Figure 1. MESA Camera description
In a similar manner, as early as January 2014, Havex version 038 appears to have been
dropped by a legitimate ~40MB software installer from the eWon web site:
hxxp://www.ewon.biz/software/eCatcher/eCatcherSetup.exe
“eWon” is a Belgian producer of SCADA and industrial network equipment, which helps define
this attack method as a watering hole attack:
Sometimes, the Havex loader was dropped from “eCatcherSetup_v4.exe”, so it seems that the
site operators may have removed a previous file and the attackers replaced it with their
trojanized installer, and so on. Likely, the attackers gained access to eWon’s ftp site and
replaced the legitimate file with one that is bound with the Havex dropper several times.
Figure 2. eWon website screenshot
Another example that involves a hijacked application from a PLC-related vendor is a Trojanized
mbCHECK installer which replaced the original legitimate version freely downloadable from the
vendor's website. The legitimate version can be downloaded for free from the vendor’s website.
The vendor - MB Connect Line - is a company which specializes in software for remote
maintenance of PLC systems: MB Connect Line
GmbH(hxxp://www.mbconnectline.com/index.php/en/).
Figure 3. MB Connect Line website
In this case, the dropped DLL was Havex version 043 .
2. Malicious XDP file – spear-phishing
The second method relies on a malicious XDP file containing the PDF/SWF exploit (CVE-20110611) and was most probably used in spear-phishing attacks. This exploit drops the Havex
loader DLL, which is stored in an encrypted form in the XDP file.
The exploit is delivered as an XDP file (XML Data Package) which is actually a PDF file
packaged within an XML container. This is a known the PDF obfuscation method and serves as
an additional anti-detection layer.
The XDP file contains an SWF exploit and two files (encrypted with XOR) stored in the invalid
section of the PDF. One of the files is Havex DLL (version 038), the other is a small JAR file
which is used to copy and run the DLL by executing the following command:
```
cmd /c copy  %TEMP%\explore.dll /y &
rundll32.exe %TEMP%\explore.dll,RunDllEntry
```
SWF executes the action script, which contains another SWF file which in turn uses the CVE2011-0611 vulnerability to run the shellcode.
The shellcode then looks for a specific signature in the memory (which signs the start of
encrypted DLL), decrypts and loads it.
3. Malicious JAR/Html files – waterholing
Finally, this actor actively compromises legitimate websites for watering hole attacks. These
hacked websites in turn redirect to malicious JAR or html files hosted on other sites maintained
by the group (exploiting CVE-2013-2465, CVE-2013-1347, and CVE-2012-1723 in Java 6, Java
7, IE 7 and IE 8), which then drop the Havex loader, the Karagany backdoor and helper
tools . These sites run an exploit kit known as “LightsOut”. It appears that the “LightsOut”
exploit kit is exclusively used by Energetic Bear/Crouching Yeti.
From the dozens of Yeti exploit sites we reviewed, the malicious code was nothing more than
slightly modified metasploit java exploits delivering the Havex loader. Some sort of internal
review must have pushed them towards the LightsOut EK. KSN data records help provide a list
of Crouching Yeti related exploit delivery from dozens of these sites.
In earlier cases (July 2013), successful Java exploitation served from nahoonservices.com
would cascade into more Yeti components planted on victim systems. The java exploit
downloaded Karagany backdoors, which in turn downloaded stealers from 91.203.6.71:
Figure 4. Infection diagram
Ksn data recorded at least 20 victim sites that were compromised and injected with Yeti iframes,
redirecting hundreds of visitors to compromised Yeti exploit sites. Most of these redirector sites
were owned by western and Eastern European power players, investors, legal advisors and
advocates, and European and US industrial IT equipment makers. The compromised sites
hosting the LightsOut Exploit Kit were fairly trafficked, legitimate sites. Their content varies
widely, from California winemakers to Cuban travel agencies and Iranian general
interest/religious inspiration sites.
Finally, other second stage tools were simply retrieved by the downloaders over http from various servers. Some of these Yeti sites, like kinoporno.org,
served both Havex and these tools. KSN events recorded the sites serving Windows Credential Editor and custom credential and document stealing
tools.
TLP: Green 11