The most remarkable findings
We have already partly documented the activities of DeathStalker, a unique threat group that
seems to focus mainly on law firms and companies operating in the financial sector. The
group’s interest in gathering sensitive business information leads us to believe that
DeathStalker is a group of mercenaries offering hacking-for-hire services, or acting as an
information broker in financial circles. The activities of this threat actor first came to our
attention through a PowerShell-based implant called Powersing. This quarter, we unraveled
the threads of DeathStalker’s LNK-based Powersing intrusion workflow. While there is
nothing groundbreaking in the whole toolset, we believe defenders can gain a lot of value by
understanding the underpinnings of a modern, albeit low-tech, infection chain used by a
successful threat actor. DeathStalker continues to develop and use this implant, using tactics
that have mostly been identical since 2018, while making greater efforts to evade detection.
In August, our public report of DeathStalker’s activities summarized the three scripting
language-based toolchains used by the group – Powersing, Janicab and Evilnum.
Following our initial private report on Evilnum, we detected a new batch of implants in late
June 2020, showing interesting changes in the (so far) quite static modus operandi of
DeathStalker. For instance, the malware directly connects to a C2 server using an embedded
IP address or domain name, as opposed to previous variants where it made use of at least
two dead drop resolvers (DDRs) or web services, such as forums and code sharing platforms,
to fetch the real C2 IP address or domain. Interestingly, for this campaign the attackers
didn’t limit themselves merely to sending spear-phishing emails but actively engaged victims
through multiple emails, persuading them to open the decoy, to increase the chance of
compromise. Furthermore, aside from using Python-based implants throughout the
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ 1/8
11/4/2020 APT trends report Q3 2020 | Securelist
intrusion cycle, in both new and old variants, this was the first time that we had seen the
actor dropping PE binaries as intermediate stages to load Evilnum, while using advanced
techniques to evade and bypass security products.
We also found another intricate, low-tech implant that we attribute to DeathStalker with
medium confidence. The delivery workflow uses a Microsoft Word document and drops a
previously unknown PowerShell implant that relies on DNS over HTTPS (DoH) as a C2
channel. We dubbed this implant PowerPepper.
During a recent investigation of a targeted campaign, we found a UEFI firmware image
containing rogue components that drop previously unknown malware to disk. Our analysis
showed that the revealed firmware modules were based on a known bootkit named Vector
EDK, and the dropped malware is a downloader for further components. By pivoting on
unique traits of the malware, we uncovered a range of similar samples from our telemetry
that have been used against diplomatic targets since 2017 and have different infection
vectors. While the business logic of most is identical, we could see that some had additional
features or differed in implementation. Due to this, we infer that the bulk of samples
originate from a bigger framework that we have dubbed MosaicRegressor. Code artefacts in
some of the framework’s components, and overlaps in C2 infrastructure used during the
campaign, suggest that a Chinese-speaking actor is behind these attacks, possibly one that
has connections to groups using the Winnti backdoor. The targets, diplomatic institutions
and NGOs in Asia, Europe and Africa, all appear to be connected in some way to North
Korea.