Volt Typhoon targets US critical infrastructure with living-off-the-land techniques
microsoft.com /en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-with-living-off-the-landtechniques
May 24, 2023
By Microsoft Threat Intelligence
Microsoft has uncovered stealthy and targeted malicious activity focused on post
compromise credential access and network system discovery aimed at critical
infrastructure organizations in the United States. The attack is carried out by Volt
Typhoon, a state-sponsored actor based in China that typically focuses on espionage and
information gathering. Microsoft assesses with moderate confidence that this Volt
Typhoon campaign is pursuing development of capabilities that could disrupt critical
communications infrastructure between the United States and Asia region during future
crises.
Volt Typhoon has been active since mid-2021 and has targeted critical infrastructure
organizations in Guam and elsewhere in the United States. In this campaign, the affected
organizations span the communications, manufacturing, utility, transportation,
construction, maritime, government, information technology, and education sectors.
Observed behavior suggests that the threat actor intends to perform espionage and
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-with-living-off-the-land-techniques/ 1/10
2/2/24, 4:58 PM Volt Typhoon targets US critical infrastructure with living-off-the-land techniques | Microsoft Security Blog
maintain access without being detected for as long as possible. Microsoft is choosing to
highlight this Volt Typhoon activity at this time because of our significant concern around
the potential for further impact to our customers. Although our visibility into these threats
has given us the ability to deploy detections to our customers, the lack of visibility into
other parts of the actor’s activity compelled us to drive broader community awareness
and further investigations and protections across the security ecosystem.
To achieve their objective, the threat actor puts strong emphasis on stealth in this
campaign, relying almost exclusively on living-off-the-land techniques and hands-on-
keyboard activity. They issue commands via the command line to (1) collect data,
including credentials from local and network systems, (2) put the data into an archive file
to stage it for exfiltration, and then (3) use the stolen valid credentials to maintain
persistence. In addition, Volt Typhoon tries to blend into normal network activity by routing
traffic through compromised small office and home office (SOHO) network equipment,
including routers, firewalls, and VPN hardware. They have also been observed using
custom versions of open-source tools to establish a command and control (C2) channel
over proxy to further stay under the radar.
In this blog post, we share information on Volt Typhoon, their campaign targeting critical
infrastructure providers, and their tactics for achieving and maintaining unauthorized
access to target networks. Because this activity relies on valid accounts and living-off-theland binaries (LOLBins), detecting and mitigating this attack could be challenging.
Compromised accounts must be closed or changed. At the end of this blog post, we
share more mitigation steps and best practices, as well as provide details on how
Microsoft 365 Defender detects malicious and suspicious activity to protect organizations
from such stealthy attacks. The National Security Agency (NSA) has also published a
Cybersecurity Advisory [PDF] which contains a hunting guide for the tactics, techniques,
and procedures (TTPs) discussed in this blog.
As with any observed nation-state actor activity, Microsoft has directly notified targeted or
compromised customers, providing them with important information needed to secure
their environments. To learn about Microsoft’s approach to threat actor tracking, read
Microsoft shifts to a new threat actor naming taxonomy.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-with-living-off-the-land-techniques/ 2/10
2/2/24, 4:58 PM Volt Typhoon targets US critical infrastructure with living-off-the-land techniques | Microsoft Security Blog
Figure 1. Volt Typhoon attack diagram