104 payload component
This payload DLL has the filename 104.dll and is named after IEC 104 (aka
IEC 60870-5-104 ), an international standard. The IEC 104 protocol extends
IEC 101, so the protocol can be transmitted over a TCP/IP network.
Due to its highly configurable nature, this payload can be customized
by the attackers for different infrastructures. Figure 8 shows what a
configuration file may look like.
Figure 8. An example of 104 payload DLL configuration.
Once executed, the 104 payload DLL attempts to read its configuration file.
As described above, the path for the configuration file is supplied by the
Launcher component.
The configuration contains a STATION section followed by properties
that configure how the 104 payload should work. The configuration may
contain multiple STATION entries.
Our analysis of this component reveals the following possible
configuration properties:
Property Expected value Purpose
target_ip IP address The IP address that will be used
for the communication using IEC
104 protocol standard
target_port Port number Self-explanatory
uselog 1 or 0 Enables or disables logging
to a file
logfile Filename Specifies the filename for the log,
if enabled
stop_comm_ 1 or 0 Enables or disables termination of
service the process
stop_comm_ Process name Specifies the process name that
service_name will be terminated
timeout Timeout in Specifies timeout between send
milliseconds and recv calls. Default value:
15000
socket_timeout Timeout in Specify the receiving timeout.
milliseconds Default value: 15000
silence 1 or 0 Enables or disables console output
asdu Integer Specifies ASDU (Application
Service Data Unit) address also
known as sector
first_action on or off Specifies the Switch value in ASDU
packet for first iteration
change 1 or 0 Specifies that the Switch value in
ASDU packet should be inverted
during iterations
command_type def or short Specifies command pulse duration
or long or persist for qualifier of command (QOC)
Win32/Industroyer 8
Property Expected value Purpose
operation range or Specifies iteration type for
sequence or shift Information Object Addresses
(IOA)
range Specific format of Specifies range of Information
IOAs Object Addresses (IOA)
sequence Specific format of Specifies sequence of Information
IOAs Object Addresses (IOA)
shift Specific formatof Specifies shift of Information
IOAs Object Addresses (IOA)
Once the configuration file is read, the 104 payload creates a thread for
each STATION section defined in the configuration file. In each such
thread, the 104 payload will attempt to communicate with the specified
IP address using the protocol described in the IEC 104 standard. Before the
connection is made, the 104 payload attempts to terminate the legitimate
process that is normally responsible for IEC 104 communication with the
device. It does so only if the stop_comm_service property is specified
in its configuration. By default, the 104 payload terminates the process
named D2MultiCommService.exe, or the process name specified in its
configuration.
The main idea behind the 104 payload is relatively simple. It connects to
the specified IP address and starts to send packets with the ASDU address
that was defined in its configuration. The goal of this communication is to
interact with an IOA of a single command type.
In the configuration file, the attacker can define the operation property to
specify exactly how single command type IOAs will be iterated.
The first such operation mode is the range mode. The attackers use
this mode in order to discover possible IOAs in the targeted device. The
attackers have to take this approach because the protocol described in
the IEC 104 standard does not provide a specific method to obtain such
information.
The range mode has two stages. During the first stage, once the range of
IOAs is obtained from the configuration file, the 104 payload connects to
the target IP address and starts to iterate through the specified IOAs. To
each such IOA the 104 payload sends “select and execute” packets in order
to switch the state and to confirm whether the IOA belongs to the single
command type.
Figure 9. An example of a 104 payload packet, after being dissected by Wireshark.
Once all possible IOAs from the specified range are iterated, the 104
payload switches to the second stage of range mode. If logging is enabled,
the payload writes Starting only success to the log. The rest of this
second stage is an infinite loop that uses the previously discovered IOAs of
single command type. In the loop the payload constantly sends “select and
execute” packets. In addition, if the option change is defined, the payload
flips the On/Off state between loop steps.
Figure 10 demonstrates the log file that was produced by the 104 payload
during our analysis. It shows the payload iterated IOAs from 10 to 15, and
once IOAs of the single command type were discovered, the payload
started to use them in the loop. The configuration had the change option
Win32/Industroyer 9
enabled, so between loop iterations the payload flipped the switch value
from On to Off and wrote it to the log.
Figure 10. Example log file produced by the 104 payload
The second operation mode is the shift mode. This is very similar to
the range mode. The attacker defines, in the configuration file, a range of
IOAs and shift values. Once the 104 payload is activated it does everything
the same way as in range mode; however, once all IOAs in the defined
range are iterated, it starts to iterate over the new range. The new range is
calculated by adding the shift values to the default range values.
The third operation mode is the sequence mode. It can be used by
attackers once they know the values of all IOAs of the single command
type that are supported by the connected device. This payload immediately
executes an infinite loop, sending “select and execute” packets to the IOAs
defined in the configuration file.
Aside from its logging capability, the 104 payload can output debug
information to the console, as seen in Figure 11.
Figure 11. The console output of the 104 payload.
Win32/Industroyer 10