Delivery mechanisms
There are a limited number of ways that malware or attackers can reach a targeted machine or penetrate
a network. The methods of most malware attacks follow a well-worn path that may include the use of
email containing links to or the attachment of a malicious file, or the attacker may take a more active role
targeting RDP or some other vulnerable service hosted at the network perimeter, facing the public internet.
RDP, the #1 attack vector for ransomware
The Windows Remote Desktop Protocol, or RDP, is a standard service available in all current versions of
Windows. With very little effort, RDP allows IT admins or computer users the ability to log in to a computer
when not physically in the presence of that computer, which can be great in the case of a pandemic where
everyone is suddenly forced to work from home. Unfortunately, for the past three years, ransomware threat
actors have been abusing (at an accelerating rate) that same remote access platform as a way to gain a
foothold and cause large-scale damage to enterprises, earning them an increasingly large payday from
targeted organizations.
RDP login attempts per honeypot
Fig.7. We distributed honeypots to datacenters around the world and permitted attackers to try to brute-force their way in. The honeypot machines were
discovered “organically,” without being advertised in any way. Over the 1-month period of our tests, this map illustrates how many attacks each honeypot
November 2020 14
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
location received.
The impact of the COVID-19 lockdown era has only exacerbated the problem, as increasing numbers of
organizations and workers are forced by circumstances to rely upon RDP in order to remain operational.
The main risk here is that RDP was never meant to withstand the kind of onslaught it can receive from the
public-facing internet. If the RDP password is weak, easily guessed or brute-forced through automated
login attempts, the attacker gains a foothold inside the network they can exploit at their leisure.
The Sophos team that handles incident response for major incidents reports that RDP remains one of the
top “root causes” of the ransomware events they handle. The advice to IT managers remains the same
as it has all along: RDP should never face the public internet, but instead be placed behind a firewall that
requires users to connect via a VPN or other zero-trust facility first; and admins should strengthen Windows
password policies to require longer passwords and a multi-factor authentication token or app.
In research performed before the lockdown took effect, Sophos set up honeypots in 10 datacenters around
the world to better understand just how bad the problem had become. Over a 30 day period, the honeypots
received a median average of 467,000 RDP login attempts, or about 600 per hour at each location. The
research revealed that each honeypot received a steadily increasing frequency and ferocity of login
attempts until we finally pulled the plug.
Top 5 usernames used in all failed login attemps
|USERNAMEadministrator|FAILED LOGIN ATTEMPTS2,647,428|
|---|---|
|admin|376,206|
|user|79,384|
|ssm-user|53,447|
|test|42,117|
Fig.8. Remote Desktop brute-force attempts target the most common Windows usernames, including the default “administrator” account.
Source: SophosLabs.
Business Email Compromise and Business Email Spoofing
Business email compromise (BEC) is the formal name for a specific kind of spam that centers around
a fraudulent request for money. In a BEC attack, a spammer sends messages that have been crafted to
look like they originate from a high-level executive within a company, directing someone at a lower level to
perform some kind of financial transfer or complete a large purchase on behalf of that executive. Attackers
may do this by spoofing the appearance of internal emails (sometimes called Business Email Spoofing)
or they may try to take control of accounts on the organization's own mail server, and use that account to
send the fraudulent request.
Fig.9. In this real-world example of a business-email compromise attempt, the fraudster poses as an executive asking an employee to respond to an urgent
request. The email has a different Reply-To address (from a Gmail account) than the one in the From: header, a dead giveaway that something is awry – if the
November 2020 15
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
target is paying attention to the mail headers. Source: SophosLabs.
BEC attackers, posing as an executive, may ask the targeted employee to buy expensive gift cards or
expedite a financial transaction of some kind. The attacks are usually highly tailored to the targeted
individuals and organizations. BEC email messages look nothing like malicious spam, because they fail
to follow spam-like patterns; they (often) don’t contain an attachment or malicious link, and they try to
look like they originated from within the targeted organization, at times even incorporating the target
organization’s typical mail “signatures” or other elements that may be familiar to employees, to make them
more convincing to the target than conventional malicious spam.
Fig. 10. After the target has acknowledged the initial request, the fraudster makes the “ask” - providing a pretext that appears plausible. Source: SophosLabs.
BEC scams rely on the target of the scam (the employee) being physically distant from the subject of the
scam (the executive), and it also depends on the target acting quickly, before anyone can figure out what’s
going on and stop the target from buying gift cards or making bank transfers. BEC scammers may craft a
message when they know the executive is out of the office on business.
These kinds of fraudulent requests often involve some back-and-forth between the attacker and target. The
conversation may start with a simple request for the target to respond to the scammer and progress into
a series of messages that eventually lead to an “ask” to make a purchase based on a plausible-sounding
pretext.
Fig.11. At some point during the attack, the BEC scammer will make a request that flies in the face of common sense, like a request to make a sudden, large
wire transfer to an account unfamiliar to the scam’s target. This provides another opportunity for a wary staffer to question the nature of the request: Why
would the executive need a photograph of the back of a gift card with the PIN scratched off when they’re going to be handed out as gifts? Source: SophosLabs.
Back when most of us were working in offices, physical proximity between the target and subject would
have made the scam immediately apparent. But our current distributed work environment, where both the
executive and employee are unlikely to be in the same physical proximity, reduces the opportunities for
people to just walk over to someone’s desk and ask them to confirm the request.
November 2020 16
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
BEC scams existed prior to the COVID-19 era, but as more people are working remotely, BEC scammers are
on the prowl. As an attack against the better nature of people who just want to be helpful and supportive, it
is a particularly offensive type of scam. If you encounter emails like these, trust your gut and speak to the
subject in question directly, if you can, or ask for guidance from someone else if you can’t reach them. The
more real employees get involved in handling these requests, the more likely it will be that the scam will be
discovered before any damage is done.
Weird science: retro Office glitch strikes again
When it comes to malicious office documents (maldocs) and the exploits they attempt to deploy, what’s
old is often used again and again, goes away after Microsoft produces an update, and then (sometimes)
resurfaces. For years, SophosLabs has tracked how attackers embed a wide and rapidly changing variety
of exploits into maldocs. Newly-disclosed vulnerabilities often find favor among the criminals who use
maldocs as a stepping stone to deliver a malware payload, because not everyone installs patches right
away, and it sometimes takes a bit of time for security companies to craft an effective “safety net” defense,
based on behavior or other characteristics of a novel vector.
Most of the maldocs we’ve seen throughout the past year have been constructed using tools called builders
that give attackers a literal point-and-click menu system that lets them decide exactly what exploit(s) to
craft into the malicious document. As endpoint protection tools get better at identifying these more modern
exploits, which usually involve a script that has been embedded into the document, maldoc creators seem
to have dug deep to find a very, very old bug that helps conceal the macros or other malicious content in the
documents.
The bug is colloquially known as the VelvetSweatshop exploit, though it really isn’t an exploit at all. In fact,
VelvetSweatshop was introduced by Microsoft into Microsoft Office 2003, although we didn’t see it abused
until 2013, when Excel workbooks exploiting the CVE-2012-0158 vulnerability were cloaked with the help of
the glitch. An Excel spreadsheet or Word .doc marked as “read-only” is just a password-protected document
with a stock password of, you guessed it, VelvetSweatshop.
We’ve seen a lot of malicious Excel spreadsheets being delivered this year that use the technique as a
way to evade advanced threat detection. Because of the encryption, the real malicious content is hidden
behind strong crypto that scanners can’t crack, and can’t scan unless they support the latest algorithm
used by attackers. Due to the use of the default-password, Excel opens the decoded content without
prompting for the password, so from the execution point of view the encryption is transparent. Endpoint
security programs added support for the encryption and the default password, but the criminals keep
finding additional cryptographic algorithms that have the same feature and are not (yet) implemented by
AV scanners.
It was quite a surprise to discover a bug old enough that, if it were human, would be in its last year of school.
But it’s no surprise that the makers of weaponized document builders would try to take advantage of it.
November 2020 17
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT