Infrastructure Sabotage
An important threat the oil and gas industry is facing is infrastructure sabotage. The initial action to
sabotage infrastructure is the same as that for a usual advanced targeted attack: reconnaissance. The
attacker first needs to collect information about the target and then use this information to compromise
systems or computer servers on the targeted network. The attacker does not need to maintain access
to the system. The attacker may also try to remove all evidence of compromise while proceeding with
the sabotage.
Sabotage in this context can be done via different actions:


Altering the behavior of software


Deleting or wiping off specific content to disrupt the activity of the company


Deleting or wiping off as much content as possible on every accessible machine


Some examples of these kinds of sabotage operations have been reported broadly, the most famous
being the Stuxnet case. [9] Stuxnet was a piece of self-replicating malware that contained a very targeted
and specific payload. Most infections of the worm were located in Iran and analysis revealed that it was
designed to exclusively target the centrifuge in the uranium enrichment facility of the Natanz Nuclear Plant
in the country. The malware targeted Siemens’ WinCC/PCS 7 SCADA control software specifically, and
only when it fit certain precise parameters in their configuration. It destroyed several nuclear enrichment
centrifuges, which lowered the productivity of the nuclear plant. Despite the fact that Stuxnet was developed
with one particular goal in mind, it did spread further within the oil industry (even without launching its
dedicated payload). [10]
7 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
Another example is the malware Industroyer (aka Crashoverride). [11] This malware contains specific
payloads for ICSs used in electric substations, although it can be refitted to target other types of critical
infrastructure. In addition to these payloads, it contains a data wiper part that can be triggered to erase
data and make systems unbootable.
The BlackEnergy malware is also of note. This malware evolved through time, from being a trojan to being
a new piece of malware delivering a payload known as KillDisk. It targeted the power facility Prykarpattya
Oblenergo and other electricity distribution companies in Ukraine. Research by Trend Micro also revealed
that it targeted a large Ukrainian mining company and a large Ukrainian railway operator, [12] showing that
such modular malware could be used against different industries.
There is also the Triton malware, which was built to interact with Triconex SIS controllers and could,
among other features, shut them down. [13]
The Shamoon (aka Disttrack) campaigns, which had at least three known waves of attack from 2012 to
2018, [14] on oil and gas companies have been incredibly aggressive. The biggest target of these attacks,
a Saudi oil company, had about 30,000 computers rendered unbootable by the destructive malware.
The impact was significant since a lot of the oil company’s computer servers were disrupted for weeks.
However, the world oil supply was essentially not affected by these attacks.
While these examples show strong developer skills in terms of building specific malware, special malware
is not always needed for attacks to be successful. Any remote access tool that could allow an attacker to
gain access to a human-machine interface (HMI) for equipment would work. Also, there are cases when
no outside attack is needed, as when the threat comes from within the company. The next section deals
with that danger: the insider threat.