Part 4: The Android Malware
While examining assadcrimes[.]info, we determined that the site was also hosting a decoy Flash Player update page. This
page, located on a subdomain, included a download link to a malicious Android APK. For a full analysis of this malware
see Appendix B: Android Malware .
While examining the website we found that the operators had prepared Android malware masquerading as an Adobe
Flash Player update notification. Clicking on the “Update” link (See Figure 8) downloads a malicious file, masquerading
as a software update.
https://citizenlab.org/2016/08/group5-syria/ 13/44
2016/8/3 Group5: Syria and the Iranian Connection - The Citizen Lab
Figure 8: Screenshot from the subdomain that was used to host the fake Flash Player update page.
The APK is an instance of DroidJack. According to Symantec, this malware evolved from an older codebase known as
SandroRAT. The RAT provides a wide range of functionality, enabling the operator to capture messages, contacts, photos
and other materials from the device. In addition, DroidJack can also remotely activate the phone camera and
microphone, without notifying the victim. Figure 9 shows some of the functionality available.
https://citizenlab.org/2016/08/group5-syria/ 14/44
2016/8/3 Group5: Syria and the Iranian Connection - The Citizen Lab
Figure 9: DroidJack server list of commands.
A more extensive analysis of the DroidJack malware, can be found in Appendix B: Android Malware . Interestingly,
DroidJack has also emerged recently, bundled with versions of Pokémon Go.
This approach to mobile malware seeding, while cumbersome, might be assumed to have greater success in the target
group of Syrians than other populations. It is common for Syrians to share Android APK files outside the Google Play Store,
as Google Play Services are not available within Syria. This practice carries over to the Syrian diaspora in other countries,
despite the availability of Google Play. As a result, we suspect that most devices are set to accept APK files from
unknown developers.