Uroburos / Epic Turla/ Snake / SnakeNet
In 2008, malicious code known as Agent.BTZ was placed on USB drives that were
dropped in the parking lots of defense facilities, such as a United States Department of
Defense in the Middle East, in what was considered the “worst breach of U.S. military
computers in history” at the time. Agent.BTZ infected systems running Microsoft Windows
and allowed attackers to log personal information, cached credentials, and user keystrokes.
The infection propagated and lasted in United States government systems for over a year.
The Agent.btz infection led to the creation of the United States Cyber Command. The
Uroburos malware, which appeared in 2011 (or earlier) and was discovered in 2014, scans for
the presence of Agent.BTZ on target systems and remains inactive if Agent.BTZ is installed.
Comments and code itself indicate that the authors of both Agent.BTZ and Uroburos are
proficient in Russian. Some file names, encryption keys, and other technical indicators are
shared between the Agent.btz and Uroburos malwares. Although other possibilities exist,
Agent.BTZ and Uroburos were likely developed by the same group or associated groups.
The Uroburos rootkit is a very advanced and very sophisticated modular malware
designed to infect entire networks and exfiltrate confidential data. The sophistication and
flexibility of the Uroburos malware suggests that a highly skilled team, who had access to
considerable resources, developed it. The significant monetary investment necessary to
develop the Uroburos platform suggests that it was developed to target businesses, nation
states, and intelligence agencies, rather than average citizens. Based on the exploit kit, the
Uroburos group likely has a political or espionage agenda. The Uroburos malware typically
infects 32-bit and 64-bit Microsoft Windows systems that belong to governments,
embassies, defense industries, pharmaceutical companies, research and education
facilities, and other large companies.
The Uroburos group uses spear phishing campaigns, drive-by-infections, watering
hole attacks, and social engineering to push their malware onto target networks. In spear
phishing campaigns, the target receives a tailored email containing an executable RAR self
extracting archive (SFX). If opened, then the malware unpacks and installs itself (a .SCR
executable) on the user system. When the Uroburos rootkit infects a machine, it can:
execute arbitrary code, hide its activity on a system, identify and exfiltrate information such
as files, capture network traffic, and infect other systems on the network. Uroburos consists
of a driver (.sys file) and an encrypted virtual file system (.dat file). The complex driver seems
to be specifically designed to be discrete and difficult to identify.
Remote attackers use Uroburos to infect other machines on the network and to
communicate between infected hosts using a peer-to-peer architecture. Uroburos
32
opportunistically propagates through the network. If Uroburos infects at least one system
on a network that has an active internet connection and that host is connected to other
systems within the network, then the attacker can infect as many systems as their resources
allow. The malware spies on each system for useful information and uses the P2P
architecture to relay information to the attackers. As such, information can be retrieved
from air-gapped systems, transferred from infected host to infected host until it reaches a
host with an active internet connection, and then exfiltrated to the adversary. This
methodology allows the malware to bypass many security controls.
The Uroburos rootkit aspires to hide its elements and remain undetected and
persistent on the compromised system. Upon installation, the malware establishes a service
(usually Ultra3.sys) that automatically executes during the startup of the system. This driver is
necessary to decrypt the malware’s virtual file systems, create additional hooks, inject code
into user libraries and applications, and manage communication between the adversary and
the malware. The driver hooks the malware into the system by injecting code into a running
process and then redirecting the rest of the running code to execute at the end of the
malicious code. As non-technical simplification, this process, known as inline patching, can be
visualized as inserting an extension cord (the malicious code) between another cord and a
wall socket. By doing this, the malware can better remain undiscovered because malicious
activity is attached to legitimate processes.
The rootkit consists of two virtual file systems (a NTFS file system and a FAT file
system) that are encrypted with CAST-128 and stored locally on the user system. The
encryption key is hardcoded in the driver file. The virtual file system (a .dat file) has a
random name and it is stored with the driver file. The encrypted file systems function as a
work environment for the attackers. Third party tools, post-exploitation tools, temporary
files, and binary output are stored in the file systems. The NTFS file contains bat scripts
which enable the attacker to map remote servers, execute netstat commands, gather system
information, log output of tools, tools to steal documents, encrypt stolen documents, and
RAR tools to compress and archive stolen documents for exfiltration. A queue and library
injection tool, which acts as a buffer between the queue and the user system, can pcap or
snapshot network traffic.
The virtual file system contains protocol information to exfiltrate information through
HTTP (external website with GET and POST requests), through ICMP (ping), through SMTP
(email), and through named pipe to another infected system. New libraries and tools can be
added by adjusting the built in queue, without reinstalling the malware. Airgapped systems
can be infected through named pipe connections or through USB devices. In the former case,
an infected system serves as a proxy node and it appears passive as it spreads the infection to
other systems on the network. Any infected system can serve as a proxy node, so even if one
33
point of infection is discovered, a tangential system can continue to infect the network as the
new proxy node. The peer-to-peer modular design is resilient to removal, scalable on any
network, and reliable. Further, the framework can be extended to include new features and
perform further attacks against the infected host or networks associated with the infected
network. The design of the malware as a driver and a multi-file virtual file system that can
only work in combination is an elegant, but sophisticated design that complicates analysis
efforts. Without the driver, the other two files cannot be decrypted. Without the files systems,
the driver is innocuous. The design is too sophisticated and too expensive to develop to be
common spyware.