Criminals are using new techniques and tools
to evade detection
group-ib.com
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021 → Web phishing and social engineering
than 20% during the reporting period.
Postal services and financial institutions
also remained a key target for attackers.
Another attack type that increased significantly was phishing used to collect
accounts for various online services
such as Microsoft, Netflix, Amazon,
eBay, and Valve Steam.
Phishing resources targeting cryptocurrency projects have disappeared almost
completely. The main reason lies in the
waning interest in ICO projects, which
were a key target for phishers in 2017
and 2018.
Between H2 2019 and H2 2020, 118%
more phishing resources were identified
and taken down compared to the previous reporting period.
This significant growth can be explained
by two main factors:
— The pandemic . During lockdowns,
many attackers had more time
to devote to malicious activity.
In addition, phishing, as one of the
simplest earning schemes, attracted
the attention of a larger audience
as many people lost their income
due to the pandemic.
— On the other hand, lockdowns
increased the demand for online
shopping. More and more people
began to order goods and services
from home. Scammers quickly
adapted to this trend and began
carrying out phishing attacks on services and individual brands, which
previously did not have much financial appeal to them.
— Change of tactics . In previous years,
attackers ended their campaigns
after fraudulent websites were taken
down and quickly switched to other
brands. Today, they are automating
their attacks instead and replacing
the blocked pages with new ones.
Phishing attacks targeting bookmakers increased in Q2 2020, amounting
to 6% versus 2% in the previous quarter.
Compared to H2 2018-H1 2019, phishing
targeting bookmakers grew by more
H2 2018 — H1 2019 H2 2019 — H1 2020
Government resources 0.3% 0.1%
Financial institutions 18.3% 15.0%
Payment services 12.9% 6.6%
Postal services 11.6% 15.6%
Internet service providers 1.6% 0.7%
Online services 30.5% 39.6%
Cloud storage systems 15.8% 14.5%
Social media 6.0% 4.5%
Dating sites 1.4% 1.2%
Cryptocurrency 1.5% 0.0%
Healthcare organizations 0.1% 0.0%
Bookmaker offices 0.1% 2.2%
group-ib.com
page 66 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
Phishing evasion techniques
So far, the main 2020 trend is the use
of one-time unique links that become
inactive after the user opens them.
This means that if someone clicks
on the link at least once, it will not
be possible to obtain the same content
again in order to collect evidence. This
significantly complicates the process
of taking down phishing resources.
Common evasion techniques used
by phishers are listed below:
— One-time links . A unique one-time
link is generated for each user.
— Blocking by subnets . The subnets
of many companies that provide
phishing page detection services
are blacklisted, and if a request for
a page comes from their subnets,
phishing content will not be shown.
— Blocking by user agent . Attackers
understand who their target audience is, and if it is clear from the
user agent that this is not a real user,
phishing content will not be shown.
For example, if a criminal carries out
an attack on mobile device users, all
visitors with a PC browser will not
receive the phishing page. Phishing
kit scripts usually contain a list
of keywords that are checked in the
user agent field.
— Blocking by region . GeoIP databases are actively used by various
criminals and phishing is no exception. If the target audience is located
in Singapore, there is no point
in showing the phishing page
to users in the United States.
— Redirects to official
websites . If some checks are
failed, instead of phishing content
visitors will be redirected to the
attacked brand’s official website
or to websites belonging to other
legal services.
group-ib.com
→ Web phishing and social engineering
Affiliate programs
Phishing scammers cannot do much
damage on their own. As such, there are
affiliate programs that bring together
people who want to make money
by phishing.
In Russia, the main reason for the significantly higher numbers of phishing
attacks is the emergence of various
affiliate programs for hackers wanting
to make money off phishing involving
fake bank rewards programs, lottery
draws, paid surveys, and more. At the
final stage of the scam, the victim
is prompted to enter their payment
details or make a transfer.
The affiliates distribute links to as many
people as possible. Affiliate program
organizers create landing pages, accept
payments, and help launder money. For
example, in a short period of time, one
of the affiliate programs created more
than 12,000 accounts of money mules
to transfer stolen money.
So far, this trend has been observed
only in Russia. Russia is often used
as a testing ground, so similar schemes
are likely to appear in other countries.
Automated management
of phishing projects
Since the start of the year, there has
been a rise in advanced social engineering, namely when multi-stage scenarios
are used in a phishing attack. As part
of such increasingly popular phishing schemes, threat actors first stake
out the victim: they establish contact
with the target individual (e.g., through
a messenger), create an atmosphere
of trust, and only then do they direct
the victim to a phishing page.
Communications between members
of such new criminal gangs are especially interesting. Hackers coordinate
attacks, communicate, and distribute
stolen funds through dedicated
Telegram channels and bots. A typical
infrastructure for such a project built
around Telegram might include the
following features:
— a bot for recruiting, where information about a new potential cybergroup member is entered (scamming experience, age, link to a profile
on the forum, etc.)
— a bot for displaying information
about successful thefts (nickname
in Telegram, how much money was
made and how)
— private channels for interaction/communication/support for members
of the scam group
— bots for generating phishing links
based on certain settings, which
are introduced by group members
during attacks
In addition to the traditional phishing kits, underground hacker forums
nowadays offer ready-made management platforms designed to automate
phishing projects. Thanks to such platforms distributed as SaaS, the number
of groups that can be easily scaled
is growing. The number of members
in a group built around such platforms can reach several dozen people.
Automating management of a criminal
group in turn leads to the emergence
and spread of more complex social
engineering. The latter is slowly starting
to be used in large-scale attacks and
not only in targeted attacks as before.
page 67 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021