INTRODUCTION
Over time, the Naikon APT appears to have used specific toolsets against organizations
within a designated country, as though each campaign was focused on one country.
There is sometimes crossover between campaigns in several ways: the backdoors they
deliver, the infiltration techniques, and the overall infrastructure. Backdoor functionality
can also cross campaigns and tools. For example, sometimes we see an “inject” variant
dropping a “sys10” backdoor. Or a naikon backdoor dropping a rarstone backdoor.
Again, this particular actor is responsible for the MsnMM and Naikon campaigns
deploying the following backdoors and tools:
- sslMM


- winMM


- exe_exchange


- wininetMM/sakto


 - inject


- sys10


- xsControl/naikon and plugins


- rarstone


- second stage tools

The Naikon group also deployed a lesser-known set of second stage tools. They mixed
together legitimate system administration tools with offensive network reconnaissance
tools, including a custom network and service scanner and an attack codeset based
on old Honker Union codebase shared on Chinese-speaking forums. See “Second
Stage Tools”.
For years, Naikon downloaders/backdoors were delivered to victim systems with kitproduced CVE-2012-0158 spear-phish. This exploit builder kit was shared amongst
multiple APTs, because we see the same exploits dropping tools from various
groups. Many of these exploit attachments were blocked by our advanced exploit
protection (AEP) on customer systems in Vietnam, Myanmar, the Philippines, and
organizations related to the energy sector in these and other ASEAN nations. Some
of these backdoors and spear-phish activities also showed up in the Hardore Charlie
CEIEC dump. In Jan 2014, we observed in some targets the increase of “right-to-leftoverride” (RTLO) naming schemes for initial payload delivery. In addition to its custom
toolset, it appears to test freely-distributed tools – in December 2013, it pushed out
For full indicator and other details, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
The MsnMM Campaigns