Army Organizations and Command and Control
This chapter describes the cyberspace and electromagnetic warfare support available
to Army maneuver commanders. It describes the roles, responsibilities, and capabilities
of the United States Army Cyber Command and its subordinate organizations. This
chapter details the cyberspace electromagnetic activities section and its roles and
responsibilities. This chapter discusses interactions between the cyberspace
electromagnetic activities section and other staff sections, including the role of the
cyberspace electromagnetic activities working group.
3-1. Army maneuver commanders use cyberspace operations and EW to understand the OE, support
decision-making, and affect adversaries. Maneuver commanders at the brigade combat team level and above
rely on assigned CEMA sections to leverage Army and joint cyberspace and EW capabilities. During joint
operations, a corps or division designated as a JTF headquarters or a joint force headquarters combines its
spectrum management chief with its CEMA section to establish an electromagnetic spectrum operations
(EMSO) cell to support the joint electromagnetic spectrum operations cell (JEMSOC). Numerous Army and
joint organizations contribute forces and capabilities for use in cyberspace operations and EW. Commanders at
corps and below should possess a general understanding of the roles and responsibilities of these organizations
and how they interact with the units’ CEMA sections.
3-2. This section provides an overview of Army organizations that provide cyberspace operations and EW
support to Army commanders. It describes the Army’s Service component command for cyberspace operations,
United States Army Cyber Command (ARCYBER) and its subordinate elements.
UNITED STATES ARMY CYBER COMMAND
3-3. ARCYBER operates and defends Army networks and delivers cyberspace effects against adversaries
to defend the nation. ARCYBER rapidly develops and deploys cyberspace capabilities to equip our force for
the future fight against a resilient, adaptive adversary. ARCYBER also integrates intelligence, fires, space,
psychological operations, strategic communications, public affairs, special technical operations, cyberspace
operations, electromagnetic warfare, and information operations to allow Army commanders a decisional
advantage during competition and conflict.
3-4. ARCYBER protects DODIN-A through DCO-IDM and DODIN operations. Commander, ARCYBER,
is also the commander of joint force headquarters-cyber (JFHQ-C [Army]). In this role, Commander,
ARCYBER, possesses the capability to conduct OCO to attack and exploit the enemy upon authorization from
Unites States Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM). ARCYBER is the Army’s point of contact for reporting and
assessing cyber incidents and events involving suspected adversary activity. The United States Army Network
Enterprise Technology Command (NETCOM) and the regional cyber center act as the chief action arms, having
been delegated operational control and directive authority for cyberspace operations by ARCYBER for DODIN
operations over all Army networks. ARCYBER serves as the Army’s principal cybersecurity service provider
and provides program oversight while NETCOM and the regional cyber centers act as the principal executors
of the program. Units assigned to ARCYBER are—
 NETCOM.
 1st Information Operations Command (Land).
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 3-1
Chapter 3
 780th Military Intelligence Brigade.
 Cyber protection brigade.
 915th Cyber Warfare Battalion.
ARMY INFORMATION WARFARE OPERATIONS CENTER
3-5. The Army Information Warfare Operations Center serves as ARCYBER’s hub for coordinating,
integrating, synchronizing, and tracking cyberspace operations, electromagnetic warfare (EW), IO, and
answering intelligence requirements in support of national, regional, and Army directives. The Army
Information Warfare Operations Center maintains global and regional situational awareness and understanding
while executing mission command of all assigned or allocated Army cyber and IO forces.
3-6. The Army Information Warfare Operations Center is composed of personnel with information-related
capabilities expertise (IO, cyber, EW, psychological operations [forces], public affairs, civil affairs, military
deception, United States Space Command and special technical operations), to include representatives from all
staff functions and embeds from partner organizations. The Army Information Warfare Operations Center is
responsible for integrating information-related capabilities across the staff into the command's current
operations and plans processes. Additionally, the Army Information Warfare Operations Center —
 Receives reports from subordinate commands.
 Prepares reports required by higher headquarters.
 Processes requests for support (RFS).
 Publishes operation orders (OPORDs) and cyber tasking orders (CTOs).
 Consolidates Commander’s critical information requirements.
 Answers requests for information from higher HQs, CCMDs, other Services and agencies.
 Assesses the overall progress of ongoing operations.
U NITED S TATES A RMY N ETWORK E NTERPRISE T ECHNOLOGY C OMMAND
3-7. NETCOM leads global operations for the Army’s managed portion of the DODIN, ensuring freedom
of action in cyberspace, while denying the same to our adversaries. NETCOM secures, configures, operates,
extends, maintains and sustains the DODIN-A. NETCOM supports DCO-IDM maneuver, creating and
preserving its confidentiality, availability, and integrity. NETCOM’s core mission encompasses all aspects of
unclassified and classified network transporting, sharing, and storing. NETCOM’s Army DODIN Operations
Center executes command and control, oversees operational synchronization, provides continuous, real-time
monitoring and reporting of global DODIN operations to ensure timely delivery of DODIN operational effects
to Service and joint force commanders, and provides problem identification and resolution across the global
network.
3-8. Regional cyber centers continuously conduct DODIN Operations and enables DCO-IDM on the
DODIN-A, ensuring Army and joint forces’ freedom of action in cyberspace, while denying the same to
adversaries. The regional cyber centers are globally postured in the continental United States, Europe, Korea,
Pacific, and Southwest Asia to provide continuous, uninterrupted service in each theater of operations. Regional
cyber centers are the point of contact for Army forces to report cyber incidents. Regional cyber centers exercise
overall responsibility for protecting the DODIN-A.
U NITED S TATES A RMY C YBER P ROTECTION B RIGADE
3-9. The cyber protection brigade defends key terrain in cyberspace to deter threats and deliver effects that
ensure freedom of action for friendly forces while denying the same to our adversaries. The cyber protection
brigade organizes, trains, equips, directs, and deploys cyber protection teams that serve worldwide to augment
supported organizations organic network defenders for operations and exercises, as well as provide unit cyber
defensive readiness assessments and assistance. The cyber protection brigade commander is authorized by
standing order to conduct DCO-IDM missions, including cyberspace defense actions, to reconfirm and
reestablish the security of degraded, compromised, or otherwise threatened blue cyberspace.
3-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Organizations and Command and Control
915 TH C YBER W ARFARE B ATTALION
3-10. The 915th Cyber Warfare Battalion is the Army’s scalable expeditionary battalion composed of
expeditionary CEMA team(s) (ECT). ECTs include cyberspace forces, EW CEMA operators, IO officers, a
targeting cell, and intelligence personnel. The 915th Cyber Warfare Battalion’s intelligence personnel collects
information to support internal CEMA, and conducts intelligence analysis to support and ECT CEMA
operations. ARCYBER deploys ECTs to provide cyberspace OCO, DCO, IO, and EW support for Army
commands. ECTs have the capabilities to employ OCO, DCO, EW, and IO in support of Army operations.
Certain CEMA operations require authorization and authorities delegated from USCYBERCOM, geographic
combatant commanders, or commanders with electronic warfare control authority. The 915th Cyber Warfare
Battalion is an Army only, Service-retained unit and not part of the DOD cyber mission force; however, all
OCO missions conducted by the 915th Cyber Warfare Battalion must first be validated and authorized by
USCYBERCOM.
1 ST I NFORMATION O PERATIONS C OMMAND
3-11. The 1st Information Operations (IO) Command is the Army’s only Active Component Information
Operations organization. It is a multi-component, brigade-level organization and it consists of a headquarters
and headquarters detachment and two battalions. 1st IO Command’s mission is to provide information
operations and cyberspace operations support to the Army and other Services through deployable teams, reach
back planning and analysis, and specialized training.
780 TH M ILITARY I NTELLIGENCE B RIGADE -C YBER
3-12. The 780th Military Intelligence Brigade (Cyber) conducts cyberspace operations to deliver effects in
support of Army and joint requirements. The 780th Military Intelligence Brigade’s primary objective is to
enable and execute cyberspace operations. Elements of the brigade use SIGINT operational tasking authority
delegated through Commander, ARCYBER, open source intelligence authority delegated through Commander,
United States Army Intelligence and Security Command, and multiple cyberspace collection authorities
delegated through Commander, USCYBERCOM to conduct reconnaissance and Intelligence to enable
cyberspace operations. The headquarters serves as a force provider for ARCYBER and cyber national mission
force (CNMF).
SECTION II – ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE ORGANIZATIONS
3-13. This section outlines the joint and Army organizations available to corps and below units during joint
and Army operations. It outlines and describes electromagnetic warfare platoons assigned to Army BCTs. It
also provides an overview of the Intelligence, Information, Cyber, EW, and Space (I2CEWS) detachment
assigned to a multi-domain task force.
ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE PLATOON (BRIGADE COMBAT
TEAM)
3-14. EW platoons are located in the military intelligence company of a brigade combat team’s brigade
engineer battalion. An EW platoon consists of three EW teams with the capability to provide EW support during
close operations. Though the CEMA section aligns EW and cyberspace operations with the operations process,
they must collaborate with the BCT’s S-2 to task the military intelligence company for deploying EW platoon
assets in support of assigned EW missions.
3-15. The EW platoon performs electromagnetic reconnaissance to identify and locate enemy emitters and
spectrum-dependent devices within assigned AO using sensors. Data and information attained through
electromagnetic reconnaissance provide the commander with critical combat information. This data and
information also supports electromagnetic battle management by providing continuous situational awareness
to the CEMA spectrum manager to develop and update the common operational picture of the EMOE. An EW
platoon can also conduct EA to degrade and neutralize enemy spectrum-dependent devices.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 3-3
Chapter 3
3-16. When given electromagnetic attack control authority from the JTF headquarters, the JFLCC may
further delegate electromagnetic attack control authority to subordinate Army commanders. Electromagnetic
attack control authority is a broader evolution of jamming control authority that enables subordinate
commanders with the authority to transmit or cease transmission of electromagnetic energy. Electromagnetic
attack control authority allows commanders to control EA missions conducted throughout their AO within the
constraints of their higher headquarters. Before receiving electromagnetic spectrum coordinating authority,
commanders should ensure they have situational awareness of the EMOE, operational control of EW
capabilities, and the ability to monitor and estimate EW transmission activities within their AO to determine
corrective actions when necessary. Commanders should also ensure that EW missions are thoroughly vetted to
ensure deconfliction with friendly spectrum dependent devices. The G-6 spectrum management chief or the G6 or S-6 spectrum manager is responsible for performing electromagnetic battle management for the unit.
3-17. EW platoons reprogram all assigned EW equipment according to system impact messages received
from Service equipment support channels that include recommendations to respond to identified threat changes.
Commanders may require an EW platoon to make immediate changes to their tactics to regain or improve EW
equipment performance (See Appendix F for more information on EW reprogramming).
INTELLIGENCE, INFORMATION, CYBER, ELECTROMAGNETIC
WARFARE, AND SPACE DETACHMENT
3-18. The I2CEWS detachment is a battalion-sized unit assigned to a multi-domain task force and includes
an enhanced CEMA section. The I2CEWS provides cyberspace operations and EW support to an Army Service
Component Command, theater army, or the JTF conducting long-range precision joint strikes during multidomain operations. The I2CEWS is composed of four companies consisting of cyberspace forces with the
capability to perform Service-level DCO-IDM and EW operators capable of delivering EA effects throughout
the MDTFs assigned AO.
3-19. The I2CEWS has organic sensing and intelligence, information, and space operations assets that, when
integrated and synchronized with DCO-IDM and EW, allows Army forces to simultaneously defend their
assigned portion of the DODIN-A while disrupting, denying, and degrading enemy EMS capabilities. The
I2CEWS is structured to meet the continually changing OE in which joint operations are being conducted
collaboratively and simultaneously in multiple domains.
3-20. CEMA sections are assigned to the G-3 or S-3 within corps, divisions, BCTs, and combat aviation
brigades. Commanders are responsible for ensuring that CEMA sections integrate cyberspace operations and
EW into their concept of operations. The CEMA section involves key staff members in the CEMA working
group to assist in planning, development, integration, and synchronization of cyberspace operations and EW.
Note. The structure of the CEMA section is similar at all corps and below echelons. However, 1st
IO Command may augment a corps’ CEMA section to provide increased capabilities for
synchronizing and integrating cyberspace operations and EW with IO (see Chapter 4).
COMMANDER’S ROLE
3-21. Commanders direct the continuous integration of cyberspace operations and EW within the operations
process, whether in a tactical environment or at home station. By leveraging cyberspace operations and EW as
part of combined arms approach, commanders can sense, understand, decide, act, and assess faster than the
adversary assesses and achieve a decisional advantage in multiple domains during operations.
3-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Organizations and Command and Control
3-22. Commanders should—
 Include cyberspace operations and EW within the operations process.
 Continually enforce cybersecurity standards and configuration management.
 Understand, anticipate, and account for cyberspace and EW effects, capabilities, constraints, and
limitations, including second and third order effects.
 Understand the legal and operational authorities to affect threat portions of cyberspace or EMS.
 Understand the implications of cyberspace operations and EW operations on the mission and
scheme of maneuver.
 Understand how the selected course of action (COA) affects the prioritization of resources to their
portion of the DODIN-A.
 Leverage effects in and through cyberspace and the EMS to support the concept of operations.
 Develop and provide intent and guidance for actions and effects inside and outside of the DODINA.
 Identify critical missions or tasks in phases to enable identification of key terrain in cyberspace.
 Ensure active collaboration across the staff, subordinate units, higher headquarters, and unified
action partners that enable a shared understanding of cyberspace and the EMS.
 Approve high-priority target lists, target nominations, collection priorities, and risk mitigation
measures.
 Ensure the synchronization of cyberspace operations and EW with other lethal and nonlethal fires
to support the concept of operations.
 Oversee the development of cyberspace operations and EW-related home-station training.
CYBERSPACE ELECTROMAGNETIC ACTIVITIES SECTION
3-23. The CEMA section plans, coordinates, and integrates OCO, DCO and EW in support of the
commander’s intent. The CEMA section collaborates with numerous staff sections to ensure unity of effort in
meeting the commander’s total operational objectives such as collaborating with the G-2 or S-2 to attain
situation awareness and understanding of friendly, enemy, and neutral actors operating within the AO. The
CEMA section is responsible for providing regular updates to the commander and staff on OCO and other
supported operations conducted in the AO. The CEMA section is responsible for synchronizing and integrating
cyberspace operations and EW with the operations process and through other integrating processes. Personnel
assigned to the CEMA section are the—
 CEWO.
 Cyber warfare officer.
 EW technician.
 EW sergeant major (corps) or EW NCOIC (division).
 EW noncommissioned officer (NCO).
 CEMA spectrum manager.
C YBER E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE O FFICER
3-24. The CEWO is the commander’s designated staff officer responsible for integrating, coordinating, and
synchronizing actions in cyberspace and the EMS. The CEWO is responsible for understanding all applicable
classified and unclassified cyberspace and spectrum-related policies to assist the commander with planning,
coordinating, and synchronizing cyberspace operations, EW, and CEMA. A commander that has been delegated
electromagnetic attack control authority from higher headquarters may further delegate it to the CEWO. Refer
to ATP 3-12.3 for specific roles and responsibilities of the CEWO. Tasks for which the CEWO is responsible
include—
 Advising the commander on effects in cyberspace (including associated rules of engagement,
impacts, and constraints) in coordination with the staff judge advocate.
 Advising the commander of mission risks presented by possible cyberspace and EW
vulnerabilities and adversary capabilities.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 3-5
Chapter 3
 Analyzing the OE to understand how it will impact operations within cyberspace and the EMS.
 Developing and maintaining the consolidated cyberspace and EW target synchronization matrix
and recommending targets for placement on the units’ target synchronization matrix.
 Assisting the G-2 or S-2 with the development and management of the electromagnetic order of
battle.
 Serving as the electromagnetic attack control authority for EW missions when directed by the
commander.
 Advising the commander on how cyberspace and EW effects can impact the OE.
 Receiving and integrating cyberspace and EW forces and associated capabilities into operations.
 Coordinating with higher headquarters for OCO and EW support on approved targets.
 Recommending cyberspace operations and EW-related CCIRs.
 Preparing and processing all requests for cyberspace and EW support.
 Overseeing the development and implementation of cyberspace operations and EW-related homestation training.
 Providing employment guidance and direction for organic and attached cyberspace operations and
EW assets.
 Tasking authority for all assigned EW assets.
C YBER W ARFARE O FFICER (C ORPS AND B RIGADE ) OR C YBE ~~R~~ ~~-O~~ PERATIONS O FFICER
(D IVISION )
3-25. The cyber warfare officer (corps and brigade) or cyber operations officer (division) assists the CEWO
with integrating and synchronizing cyberspace operations into the operations process and provides insight into
cyberspace capabilities. The cyber warfare officer or cyber operations officer collaborates with the CEWO in
vetting and processing potential targets received from subordinate units for OCO effects. The cyber warfare
officer or cyber operations officer—
 Assists the CEWO in the integration, coordination, and synchronization of cyberspace operations
and EW with operations.
 Provides the CEWO with information on the effects of cyberspace operations, including associated
rules of engagement, impacts, and constraints used to advise the commander.
 Assists the CEWO with developing and maintaining a consolidated cyberspace target
synchronization matrix and assists in nominating OCO-related targets for approval by the
commander.
 Assists the CEWO in monitoring and assessing measures of performance and effectiveness while
maintaining updates on cyberspace operation’s effects on the OE.
 Assists the CEWO in requesting and coordinating for OCO support while integrating received
cyber mission forces into operations.
 Coordinates with unified action partners for cyberspace capabilities that complement or increase
the unit’s cyberspace operations posture.
 Coordinates cyberspace operations with the G-2 or S-2 and the G-6 or S-6.
 Develops and implements cyberspace operations-related home station training.
E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE T ECHNICIAN
3-26. The Electromagnetic Warfare Technician (EWT) is a critical asset to the CEMA section and the EW
platoon as they serve as the resident technical and tactical expert across all echelons. The EWT assist in the
accomplishment of mission objectives by coordinating, integrating, and synchronizing CEMA effects to exploit
and gain an advantage over adversaries and enemies in both cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum
(EMS), while simultaneously denying and degrading adversary and enemy use of the same. Refer to ATP 312.3 for specific roles and responsibilities of the EW Technician. EWT duties include—
 Serves as the acting CEWO or EW platoon leader, when assigned position is vacant during
assignment.
3-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Organizations and Command and Control
 Serves as the validator for EW training within the organization.
 Maintains and assists in developing the CEMA staff running estimate.
 Assists in development and management of enemy electromagnetic order of battle. Integrates
threat electronic technical data, identified in the electromagnetic order of battle, as part of the IPB
process.
 Advises on technical and tactical employment of Joint and Army EW systems, and integrates EW
into the targeting process.
 Assists the CEWO with recommended EW COAs assets that suit each EW unit’s mission.
 Coordinates targeting information and synchronizing EA and ES activities with Intelligence
personnel (G-2 or S-2).
 Assists spectrum manager (G-6 or S-6) with EP technical data to enhance emission control for the
unit.
 Conducts, maintains, and updates an electromagnetic environment survey.
 Identifies the enemy and friendly EMS-related effects.
 Assists Force Protection officer in developing mitigation measures for UAS when EW capabilities
are used.
 Assists in developing and promulgating standard operating procedures (SOPs) and battle drills
throughout the organization.
 Advises and oversees the acquisition of EW assets, including non-program of record equipment.
 Oversees the maintenance of organic EW assets.
 Assists the CEWO in preparing and updating the EW appendix to the operations order.
 Assists in production and application of target selection standards for EW.
 Develops and executes EW policies and procedures for supported organizations.
 Plans, organizes, implements, monitors and evaluates operations and the threat environment, in
support of the CEWO.
 Requests and conducts battle damage assessments resulting from EW effects.
E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE S ERGEANT M AJOR (C ORPS ) OR NCOIC (D IVISION )
3-27. The EW sergeant major or NCOIC is the CEWO’s senior enlisted advisor for EW. The EW sergeant
major or NCOIC assists the CEWO and cyber warfare officer with integrating, coordinating, and cyberspace
operations and EW with operations. The EW sergeant major or NCOIC provides input to the CEWO on EW
actions and their associated effects in the AO. The EW sergeant major or NCOIC assists the EW technician in
updating and managing the electromagnetic order of battle.
3-28. The EW sergeant major or NCOIC assists the CEWO and cyber-warfare officer in developing and
updating the cyberspace target synchronization matrix, specifically those targets related to EW, and assists with
nominating EA-related targets for the commander’s approval. The EW sergeant major or NCOIC provides input
to the CEWO regarding how EW effects can influence the EMOE. Refer to ATP 3-12.3 for specific roles and
responsibilities of the EW sergeant major or NCOIC.
3-29. The EW sergeant major or NCOIC collaborates with the EW technician with developing and
implementing EW-related home station training. EW training development is a core responsibility of an EW
sergeant major. The EW sergeant major evaluates all aspects of EW training and certifies instructors within
subordinate organizations. The EW sergeant major ensures EW training is developed appropriately, reflects
current methodology, and supports Army mission requirements.
E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE N ONCOMMISSIONED O FFICER
3-30. The EW NCO manages the availability and employment of EW assets assigned to the unit. The EW
NCO is the organization’s senior training developer for EW. The EW NCO collects and maintains data for
electromagnetic energy surveys and operates and maintains EW tools. The EW NCO assists the CEMA
spectrum manager with frequency deconfliction. The EW NCO coordinates with the G-2 or S-2 to develop and
conduct integrated SIGINT and ES training for EW personnel. When the commander or CEWO has
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 3-7
Chapter 3
electromagnetic attack control authority, the EW NCO helps manage EW assets during operations. The EW
NCO assists the EW sergeant major or NCOIC with implementing EW-related home station training.
C YBERSPACE E LECTROMAGNETIC A CTIVITIES S PECTRUM M ANAGER
3-31. The CEMA spectrum manager assists the CEMA section in the planning, coordination, assessment,
and implementation of EW through frequency management. The CEMA spectrum manager defines the EMOE
for the CEMA section. The CEMA spectrum manager—
 Forwards all reports of EMI identified by EW operators to either the G-6 or S-6 spectrum
management chief or spectrum manager. Uploads the reports to Joint Spectrum Interference
Reporting Online.
 In collaboration with the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager, ensures the frequency deconfliction of
spectrum management operations with EW.
 Assists the EW technician in developing and managing the electromagnetic order of battle.
 Synchronizes frequencies used during EW and cyberspace operations to protect radio frequencies
used by friendly forces in collaboration with the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager.
 Reports EMI from EW systems to the G-6 or S-6 spectrum management chief or spectrum
manager for mitigation.
 Determines if EW assets have spectrum supportability and provide frequency-engineering
support.
 Maintains frequency charts, diagrams, and reports of EMI incidents identified during EW
missions.
 Assists the CEWO in issuing guidance throughout the organization regarding deconfliction and
resolution of EMI between EW systems and other friendly systems.
CYBERSPACE ELECTROMAGNETIC ACTIVITIES WORKING
GROUP
3-32. The CEMA section leads the CEMA working group. The CEMA working group is not a formal
working group that requires dedicated staff members from other sections. When needed, the CEWO uses a
CEMA working group to assist in synchronizing and integrating cyberspace operations and EW into the concept
of operations. The CEMA section normally collaborates with key stakeholders during staff meetings established
as part of the unit’s battle rhythm and throughout the operations process. Membership in the CEMA working
group will vary based on mission requirements.
3-33. If scheduled, the CEMA working group must be integrated into the staff’s battle rhythm. The CEMA
working group is responsible for coordinating horizontally and vertically to support operations and assist the
fires support element throughout the execution of an operation. Generally, the CEMA working group is
comprised of staff representatives with equities in CEMA, and typically include—
 The G-2 or S-2.
 The G-6 or S-6.
 The IO officer or representative.
 The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager.
 The fire support officer or a fires support element representative.
 The staff judge advocate.
 The Protection Officer.
STAFF AND SUPPORT AT CORPS AND BELOW
3-34. During the operations process and associated integrating processes, cyberspace operations and EW
require collaborative and synchronized efforts with other key staff. The G-6 or S-6 oversees DODIN operations,
and the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager collaborates with the CEMA spectrum manager to synchronize spectrum
management operations with EW. The G-2 or S-2 manages the integration and synchronization of the IPB
3-8 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Organizations and Command and Control
process and information collection. The IO officer oversees the integration and synchronization of informationrelated capabilities for IO. The staff judge advocate advises the commander on the legality of operations.
A SSISTANT C HIEF OF S TAFF , I NTELLIGENCE
3-35. The G-2 or S-2 provides intelligence to support CEMA. The G-2 or S-2 facilitates understanding the
enemy situation and other operational and mission variables. The G-2 or S-2 staff provides direct or indirect
support to cyberspace operations and EW through information collection, enabling situational understanding,
and supporting targeting and IO. The G-2 or S-2 further supports CEMA by—
 Assessing CEMA intelligence and plans while overseeing information collection and analysis to
support the IPB, target development, enemy COA estimates, and situational awareness.
 Continually monitoring intelligence operations and coordinating intelligence with supporting
higher, lateral, and subordinate echelons.
 Coordinating SIGINT.
 Coordinating for intelligence and local law enforcement support to enhance cyberspace security.
 Leading the IPB and developing IPB products.
 Overseeing the development and management of the electromagnetic order of battle.
 Providing all-source intelligence to CEMA.
 Coordinating with the G-3 or S-3 and fires support element to identify high-value target(s) from
the high-payoff target list for each friendly COA.
 Coordinating with the intelligence community to validate threat-initiated cyberspace attack or EA
activities in the OE.
 Requesting intelligence support and collaborating with the intelligence community and local law
enforcement to gather intelligence related to threat cyberspace operations and EW in the OE.
 Providing information and intelligence on threat cyberspace and EW characteristics that facilitate
situational understanding and supports decision making.
 Coordinating with Air Force Combat Weather Forecasters for information on the terrain and
weather variables for situational awareness.
 Ensuring information collection plans and operations support CEMA target development, target
update requirements, and combat assessment.
 Developing requests for information and collection for information requirements that exceed the
unit’s organic intelligence capabilities.
 Collecting, processing, storing, displaying, and disseminating cyberspace operations and EW
relevant information throughout the operations process and through command and control
systems.
 Consolidating all high-value target(s) on a high-payoff target list.
 Providing input for guarded frequencies from the intelligence community.
 Providing the CEMA section and G-6 or S-6 prioritized EMS usage requirements for intelligence
operations.
 Participating as a member of the CEMA working group.
 Assisting the CEMA spectrum manager in mitigating EMI and resolving EMS deconfliction and
assisting with determining the source of unacceptable EMI.
A SSISTANT C HIEF OF S TAFF , S IGNAL
3-36. In collaboration with the joint force and unified action partners (as appropriate), the G-6 or S-6 staff
directly or indirectly supports cyberspace operations by conducting DODIN operations. G-6 or S-6 is the
primary staff representative responsible for spectrum management operations. The G-6 or S-6 staff supports
CEMA by—
 Establishing the tactical portion of the DODIN-A, known as the tactical network, at theater army
and below.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 3-9
Chapter 3
 Conducting DODIN operations activities, including cyberspace security, to meet the
organization’s communications requirements.
 Assisting in developing the cyberspace threat characteristics specific to enemy and adversary
activities and related capabilities within friendly networks, and advising on cyberspace operations
COAs.
 Conducting cyberspace security risk assessments based on enemy or adversary tactics, techniques,
and procedures, identifying vulnerabilities to crucial infrastructure that may require protection
measures that exceed the unit’s capabilities and require DCO-IDM support.
 Participating in the CEMA working group.
 Providing a common operational picture of the DODIN for planning purposes and situational
awareness.
 Providing subject matter expertise regarding wired and wireless networks.
 Ensuring security measures are configured, implemented, and monitored on the DODIN-A based
on threat reports.
 Overseeing spectrum management operations.
 Implementing layered security by employing tools to provide layered cyberspace security and
overseeing security training throughout the organization.
 Coordinating with the regional cyber center to ensure the unit understands and meets compliance
of all cyberspace operations policies and procedures within the region.
 Requesting satellite and gateway access through the regional satellite communications support
center.
 Coordinating with regional hub node to establish network connectivity and access services.
I NFORMATION O PERATIONS O FFICER (C ORPS AND D IVISION ) OR R EPRESENTATIVE
(B RIGADE AND B ELOW )
3-37. The IO officer or representative leads the unit’s IO element. The IO officer or representative
contributes to the IPB by identifying and evaluating threats targeted actors in the AO. The IO officer or
representative understands the command relationship with information-related capabilities units and builds
rapport accordingly. The IO officer or representative collaborates with those information-related capabilities
units to determine ways to optimize the information-related capabilities’ effects with other information-related
capabilities through synchronization. The IO officer or representative leads the planning, synchronization, and
employment of information-related capabilities not managed by a capability owner or proponent. The IO officer
or representative coordinates with the CEMA section with integrating cyberspace operations and EW into IO.
The IO officer or representative’s responsibilities include—
 Leading the IO working group.
 Identifying the most effective information-related capabilities to achieve the commander’s
objectives.
 Synchronizing cyberspace operations and EW with other information-related capabilities to
achieve the commander’s objectives in the information environment.
 Assessing the risk-to-mission and risk-to-force associated with employing cyberspace operations,
EW, and other information-related capabilities in collaboration with the CEMA section.
 Identifying information-related capabilities gaps not resolvable at the unit level.
 Coordinating with Army, other Services, or joint forces for information-related capabilities to
augment the unit’s shortfalls.
 Providing information, as required, in support of OPSEC at the unit level.
 Collaborating with the CEMA section to employ cyberspace manipulation and EA deception tasks
in support of military deception.
 Assessing the effectiveness and making plan modifications to employed information-related
capabilities.
 Developing products that describe all military and civilian communications infrastructures and
connectivity links in the AO in coordination with the G-2 or S-2.
3-10 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Organizations and Command and Control
 Locating and describing all EMS systems and emitters in the EMOE in coordination with the G-2
or S-2, CEMA section, and other information-related capabilities owners.
 Identifying network vulnerabilities of friendly, neutral, and threat forces in coordination with the
G-2 or S-2, CEMA section, and other information-related capabilities owners.
 Providing understanding of information-related conditions in the OE in coordination with the G2 or S-2.
 Participating in the military decision-making process and developing IO-related IRs.
 Participating member of the CEMA working group.
 Integrating IO into the unit’s targeting process.
 Integrating non-organic information-related capabilities into operations.
 Ensuring IO-related information is updated in the common operational picture.
 Collaborating with the fire support coordinator for lethal and non-lethal effects.
G-6 OR S-6 S PECTRUM M ANAGER
3-38. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager coordinates EMS usage for various communications and electronic
systems and resources. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager supports CEMA by—
 Coordinating spectrum resources for the organization.
 Coordinating for spectrum usage with higher headquarters, host nations, and international
agencies as necessary.
 Coordinating frequency allocation, assignment, and usage.
 Coordinating spectrum resources for communications assets used for deception operations.
 Coordinating with the higher headquarters’ spectrum manager to mitigate EMI identified in the
unit’s portion of EMOE.
 Seeking assistance from the higher the headquarters’ spectrum managers for a resolution to
unresolvable internal EMI.
 Participating in the CEMA working group.
 Assisting the CEMA spectrum manager with deconflicting friendly EMS requirements with
planned EW, cyberspace operations, and information collection.
 Collaborating with the CEMA spectrum manager to ensure the integration and synchronization of
spectrum management operations with EW.
F IRES S UPPORT E LEMENT
3-39. The fires support element plans, coordinates, integrates, synchronizes, and deconflicts current and
future fire support to meet the commander’s objectives. Fire support coordination may include collaboration
with joint forces and unified action partners. The fires support element coordinates with the CEMA section
to synchronize, plan, and execute cyberspace attacks and EA as part of the targeting process. The fires
support element support CEMA by—
 Leading the targeting working group and participating in the targeting board chaired by the
commander.
 Assisting the G-2 or S-2 with synchronizing the information collection plan with cyberspace
operations, EW, and other fires.
 Synchronizing joint, interorganizational and multinational assets, fire support, and sensor
management of counter-fire radar assets.
 Providing the commander and staff with the status of the unit’s deployed radars, including the
zones that each radar is surveilling.
 Integrating and synchronizing cyberspace operations and EW with other fires support.
 Collaborating with the CEMA section and the G-2 or S-2 in developing and managing the highpayoff target list, target selection standards, attack guidance matrix, and targeting synchronization
matrix, all of which include cyberspace attack and EA-related targets.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 3-11
Chapter 3
 Planning, preparing, executing, and assessing all aspects of fire support, incorporating cyberspace
and EW effects, and addressing them in rehearsals.
 Developing a scheme of fires with the commander and G-3 or S-3 that includes cyberspace
operations and EW.
 Reviewing target nominations from the joint target list added to the unit’s target nomination list
that requires non-organic resources for target engagement.
 Recommending prioritization of high-value targets for inclusion on the high-payoff target list.
 Nominating the prioritized unit target nomination list to higher headquarters for integration into
the joint targeting process.
 Providing input to the information collection plan.
 Collaborating with the G-2 or S-2 in recommending target area(s) of interest.
 Participating in the CEMA working group.
 Adding cyberspace attack and EA to the fires synchronization matrix.
 Providing information requirements as input for information collection.
 Synchronizing reconnaissance and surveillance assets through the targeting process to identify
proposed targets to support the execution of HPTs.
 Collaborating with the CEMA section to develop movement plans for all spectrum-dependent
devices as part of EP while ensuring the continual movement of the unit’s radars to avoid enemy
detection.
S TAFF J UDGE A DVOCATE
3-40. The staff judge advocate is the field representative of the Judge Advocate General and the primary
legal adviser to the commander. The staff judge advocate also advises the CEMA working group concerning
operational law, and the legality of cyberspace operations and EW, particularly those cyberspace and EW
tasks that may affect noncombatants. The staff judge advocate is the unit’s subject matter expert on the law
of war, rules of engagement, the protection of noncombatants, detainee operations, and fiscal and contract
law, providing commanders and staff with essential input on plans, directives, and decisions related to lethal
and nonlethal targeting. The staff judge advocate supports CEMA by—
 Ensuring cyberspace and EW comply with applicable policies and laws.
 Reviewing potential cyberspace operations and EW according to relevant legal frameworks and
authorities granted at national and combatant command levels.
 Participating in the CEMA working group to provide legal advice on cyberspace operations and
EW.
 Participating in the targeting working group to discuss and debate proposed targets, and in
coordination with other members, ensuring targets are realistic and meaningful, and the method
of attack on a target is lawful.
3-12 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Chapter 4