Introduction
Over the course of three years of observation of campaigns targeting civil society and human rights
organizations, from records of well over two hundred spearphishing and other intrusion attempts against
individuals inside of Iran and in the diaspora, a narrative of persistent intrusion efforts emerges. From
Madi onward, Iranian threat actors maintain a consistent set of interests and activities that blur the lines
between domestic surveillance and foreign commercial espionage. This pattern continues across
subsequent groups. Infy engaged in malware spearphishing against the same targets as Flying Kitten from
the outset of its campaign; Operation Cleaver has registered several resources related to development
agencies that have been the subject of intrusion attempts by others since February 2014. This
documentation provides new insight into intrusion efforts conducted by at least four discrete Iranian threat
actors, Rocket Kitten, Infy, Sima, and Operation Cleaver, including groups and tools that have not been
previously disclosed.
Attribution of different Iranian intrusion efforts has been made possible through the reuse of common
templates and infrastructure over long periods of time, coupled with failures in operational security that
exposed information on the actors behind the campaigns. These approaches are imperfect, as the
participants often attempt to break patterns after publicity has called attention to their activities and
provided critical external feedback on their strategies. No collected documentation demonstrates the
process of selecting targets or coordinating campaigns, however, many of those targeted would be later
singled out by other actors, and their targeting aligns with Iran’s political environment. The intrusion sets
documented have clear indications of being solely Iranians inside of Iran, with little indication of
participation from Iranians in the diaspora or support from non­Iranians. At the most basic level, the
groups of actors follow similar patterns of life approximating that of an Iranian workday (Saturday
through Wednesday) and are fully dormant on Iranian holidays, particularly the long vacation period of
Nowruz.
Based on our longitudinal account of infrastructure employed in intrusion attempts against civil society,
we find that the activities of Iranian actors date back further than previously documented and cover a
richer set of targets. Iranian threat actors have responded to improved information security practices
amongst its target populations and increased pressure resulting from publication of their activities. The
Sima and Operation Cleaver groups represent the most sophisticated spearphishing campaigns observed
from Iran thus far, using open mail relays to send professionally­tailored messages based on monitoring
3
Iran and the Soft War for Internet Dominance Guarnieri & Anderson
of target interests and emotional manipulation, such as stark threats of immigration issues as the
Department of Homeland Security. While such campaigns may not represent Iran’s graduation to a first or
second tier power, these incidents impact livelihoods, and their documentation provides tactics of public
accountability. The study of these properties and the similarities between actors lends an insight into the
capabilities and interests of Iranian intrusion sets, and their foreshadows future activities.