1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Linux/Moose is a malware family that primarily targets Linux-based consumer routers but that can
infect other Linux-based embedded systems in its path. The compromised devices are used to steal
unencrypted network traffic and offer proxying services to the botnet operator. In practice, these
capabilities are used to steal HTTP Cookies on popular social network sites and perform fraudulent
actions such as non-legitimate "follows", "views" and "likes" on such sites.
Linux/Moose is a standard statically-linked ELF binary that was stripped of any debugging symbols.
It relies heavily on multithreading for its operation using as many as 36 threads. Most of these
threads are used to attempt find and infect other devices automatically.
The threat displays out-of-the-ordinary network penetration capabilities compared to other
router-based malware. Moose also has DNS hijacking capabilities and will kill the processes of other
malware families competing for the limited resources offered by the infected embedded system.
ESET researchers ran and monitored a Moose-infected environment and collected operational
information about the threat. This information includes which social networks were targeted
and the unencrypted interactions between the operators, the infected host and the targeted
social networks.
Linux/Moose does not have a persistence mechanism and does not provide a generic backdoor
shell access to the botnet operator. No vulnerability is exploited at any time during its operation;
it spreads by finding routers with weak credentials.
This report contains an overview of the operation and an in-depth analysis of the threat, details
of its network protocol, indicators of compromise (IoC), cleaning instructions, prevention advice
and the list of potentially targeted vendors.
Key findings

Linux/Moose targets consumer routers and modems including the hardware provided

by Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to consumers


The threat is built for deep network penetration spreading past firewalls


It can eavesdrop on communications to and from devices connected behind the infected


router, including desktops, laptops and mobile phones

Moose runs a comprehensive proxy service (SOCKS and HTTP) that can be accessed only

by a specific list of IP addresses

The operators use the infected devices to perform social network fraud on Twitter,

Facebook, Instagram, Youtube and more

Moose can be configured to reroute router DNS traffic, which enables man-in-the-middle

attacks from across the Internet

It affects Linux-based embedded devices running on the MIPS and ARM architectures

3