Diamorphine Rootkit
Another trend we observed in 2020 is the integration of rootkits into Linux-based threats for persistence
and stealth. [15] Stealth, in particular, is a crucial factor for cryptocurrency mining activities since, without
any limitations in place, the mining process will quickly raise red flags as the CPU utilization spikes to
100%. Even if this anomalous behavior is not spotted by an administrator, it will likely trigger warnings in
the cloud provider’s system, which will then send a notification to the user. To get around this, malware
authors have introduced new features to hide the process from administrators and system tools.
TeamTNT is no exception. The group uses a kernel-mode open-source rootkit called Diamorphine, [16] which
creates function hooks for the following system calls:

getdents/getdents64: This hook allows hiding file system entries from user-mode applications. The

actual process hiding is implemented in this hook as the Unix uses the /proc pseudo-file system as
an interface to kernel process structures.

kill: This hook implements the main functionality of the rootkit, which is dependent on the signal sent

to the process based on the following:
º The signal SIGINVIS = 31 flips the process custom PF_INVISIBLE flag to the task associated with
the specified process ID (pid).
if ((task = find_task(pid)) == NULL)
return -ESRCH;
task->flags ^= PF_INVISIBLE;
break;
º The signal SIGSUPER = 64 obtains root privileges by committing new credentials with uids = 0.
º The signal SIGMODINVIS = 63 hides/reveals the presence of the kernel module.
17 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group
Diamorphine is used for hiding the cryptocurrency mining process in which, in this context, the kernel
module itself is hidden by default as the hide function is called during the module initialization phase.
Figure 17. The Diamorphine module initialization phase
The following discussion demonstrates the described behavior of Diamorphine.
After the cryptocurrency process using XMRig is started, the signal SIGINVIS is sent to the mining process.
Figure 18. The XMRig process
This is done by executing the kill utility with the argument SIGINVIS and the target process ID. The utility
calls linux syscall, which is then intercepted by Diamorphine, rendering the process invisible to user-mode
applications.
Figure 19. Sending a SIGINVIS signal to the Diamorphine rootkit, effectively hiding
the cryptocurrency mining process
If we compare the output of the top utility before the hiding signal is sent to the rootkit module and after
the signal is sent, we can observe that the XMRig process (pid = 12254) is causing the CPU usage to
spike. [17]
18 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group
Figure 20. The top output before the signal is sent
However, after the hiding signal is sent, the process is not seen by the utility and remains undetected.
At this point, we should emphasize that a root user permission with CAP_SYS_ADMIN capability is
required to install the kernel module. As malware authors target container environments, there is the
danger of privileged containers that allow users to obtain full host root with all capabilities and thus can
also be used to install kernel mode rootkits such as Diamorphine.
Malware authors have also optimized the usability of XMRig for cloud environments by decreasing the
maximum percentage of CPU usage in order to remain undetected and not trigger necessary alarms. It
should be noted that running unwanted cryptocurrency miners in public clouds will lead to additional
costs.
19 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group