Payload Search
The malicious function “_ValidateInput” is used to process incoming requests, searching for payloads in several
locations within the request. The following list describes the search order for payloads:


A file larger than 8 bytes which is attached to the request and has a name that matches the “HOOK_KEY”.


An HTTP POST request containing a parameter with a key name that matches the “HOOK_KEY” and value length


is greater than 8 bytes.


An HTTP cookie with a name that matches the “HOOK_KEY” and that its value’s length is over 10 bytes.


If no payload was found in the previous steps, the NodeIISWeb will try to treat the whole request content as the


payload.
After identifying an incoming payload, the malware attempts to extract two variables from it – A “Command”
variable and a “Forward” variable. The parameters are extracted in the following procedure:

Key and IV Generation – A decryption key is generated by calculating the SHA256 value of the payload’s first 3

bytes concatenated to the “HOOK_KEY” string value. The malware then calculates the MD5 value of the key, the
16 bytes MD5 output is used as the IV for the decryption process.

Decryption – The payload (starting from the 3 [rd] byte) is decrypted with a standard AES algorithm using the

generated key and IV from the previous step.

Decompression – After decryption, the payload is decompressed recursively using GZip.

Once the “Command” and “Forward” variables are extracted, they are used by the malware to launch the
requested built-in functionality. The first byte of the “Command” parameter (“ Command ID ”) is used to determine
which built-in function will be executed by the malware. In most cases, the “Forward” data will contain the arguments
for the requested function, but in some cases, the selected functionality will not require both variables and only the
“Command” variable is resolved. The built-in functionalities of the NodeIISWeb malware can be seen in the following
table:
Command ID Description
0x00 Information gathering - Query domain membership, operation system information, process and
owner information of the current process, time zone, network interfaces information and status
and drives information.
0x01 Recursive directory listing.
0x02 File reading.
0x03 File writing.
0x04 Copying or moving files, or recursively copying directories.
0x05 files and recursive directories deletion.
0x06 Directory creation.
0x07 Custom reflective loading.
0x08 Traffic forwarding, either HTTP, SQL or TCP. used to communicate to additional backdoors
installed within the network, as well as to memory loaded payloads via loopback
communication.
0x09 Dynamic execution of JScript payloads.
C2 communication flow with the backdoor with full built-in capabilities
10