The bear’s bait
At the end of August 2018, the Sednit group launched a spearphishing email campaign
where it distributed shortened URLs that delivered the first stage of Zebrocy
components. In the past, Sednit used a similar technique for credential phishing.
However, it is unusual for the group to use this technique to deliver one of its malware
components directly. Previously, it had used exploits to deliver and execute the first
stage malware, while in this campaign the group relied entirely on social engineering to
lure victims into running the first part of the chain. The screenshot in Figure 1 shows Bitly
statistics for the shortened URL used in this campaign.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/05/22/journey-zebrocy-land/ 1/10
5/23/2019 A journey to Zebrocy land | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 1. Statistics of the Bitly URL
About 20 clicks were recorded on this link in the same week that the URL was created,
and these presumably downloaded the target archive. Let’s keep in mind that this may
mean fewer than 20 potential victims, as victims may have clicked on the URL twice, or
maybe even more times, because the outcome was not what they expected… as we will
describe below.
While ESET telemetry data indicates that this URL was delivered by spearphishing
emails, we don’t have a sample of such an email. The shortened URL leads the victim to
an IP-address-based URL, where the archived payload is located.
Unfortunately, without the email message, we don’t know if there are any instructions for
the user, if there is any further social engineering, or if it relies solely on the victim’s
curiosity. The archive contains two files; the first is an executable file, while the second is
a decoy PDF document.
Note there is a typo in the
executable’s filename; it should be
“ДОВIДНИК” instead of
“ДОВIДНIК”. Once the binary is
executed, a password prompt
dialog box opens. The result of the
password validation will always be
wrong, but after the apparent
Figure 2. Files extracted from the archive (Google Translate
validation attempt, the decoy PDF suggests “CATALOGUE – (2018).exe” and “Order 97.pdf”
document is opened. That from the Ukrainian)
document appears to be empty,
but the downloader, which is
written in Delphi, continues running in the background. The IP address is also used in
the URL hardcoded into the first binary downloader.
Figure 2. Files extracted from the archive (Google Translate
suggests “CATALOGUE – (2018).exe” and “Order 97.pdf”
from the Ukrainian)