Preventing compromise from malicious bot-related activities
The Outlaw group here used an IRC bot, which isn’t a novel threat. The code used is available online, making
it possible to build such a bot (with a fully undetectable toolset) and operate it under the radar of common
network security solutions. Additionally, in this particular operation, it should be noted that the attackers
looked into targeting big companies. While we haven’t seen widespread attacks from this hacking group, it is
important to adopt security measures that can defend systems against any potential attacks, such as:
Setting up the SSH login process properly. Do not leave it open to public networks unless it is
necessary for your infrastructure. Many devices run an SSH service by default, unnecessarily, with
default credentials. This is particularly true in the case of network infrastructure devices like switches
and firewalls.
Monitoring the commands used on CLI on your systems.
Monitoring non-DNS traffic coming to and from port 53.
Detecting creation of new accounts and regularly verifying that all created accounts are only used for
business purposes.
Restricting the use of FTP as much as possible. Not only does it transfer passwords in clear text, but is
also usually used for loading the exploit files on local systems. The same goes for the web directories.
Any newly created files should be considered suspicious unless they are in an intended folder in the
system.
Reconsidering the use of Dovecot mail server, as it has been found to have a buffer overflow
vulnerability (and therefore unsecure). Patch it or at least monitor its file directory for unusual files.
Maintaining a mailbox, a contact person, or at least a contact form on your website for reporting any
possible abuse or security compromise.
Users can also consider adopting security solutions that can provide protection from malicious bot-related
activities through a cross-generational blend of threat defense techniques. Trend Micro™ XGen™ security
provides high-fidelity machine learning that can secure the gateway and endpoints, and protect physical,
virtual, and cloud workloads. With technologies that employ web/URL filtering, behavioral analysis, and
custom sandboxing, XGen security offers protection against ever-changing threats that bypass traditional
controls and exploit known and unknown vulnerabilities. XGen security also powers Trend Micro’s suite of
security solutions: Hybrid Cloud Security, User Protection, and Network Defense.