Why the Targeting of Linux Systems Matters
Linux is arguably the most important yet least user-friendly operating system in the
world. While most people are unlikely to be using it on their desktop at work or at home,
Linux dominates the backend infrastructure of large modern data centers.
Linux runs the stock exchanges in New York, London and Tokyo, and nearly all the
big tech and e-commerce giants are dependent on it, including the likes of Google,
Yahoo, and Amazon. Most U.S. government agencies and the Department of Defense
also rely heavily on the Linux operating system, and it runs virtually all of the top onemillion websites and 75% of all web servers (Netcraft, 2019). Linux powers 98% of the
world’s most advanced supercomputers, and if you or your organization stores data in
the cloud, you’ll find Linux running in the background more than 75% of the time (Linux
Foundation, 2020).
Given the open-source nature of Linux, it is generally considered to be a more secure
and require less maintenance, making it the ideal operating system for backend servers.
Behind the scenes at government agencies, universities, and corporations around the
world, you’ll find Linux on servers that house sensitive data as well as those that keep
critical systems up and running.
Linux keeps the lights on when the employees have all gone home for the night, which
means servers running Linux are trusted to be always-on and always accessible.
These qualities have made Linux the operating system of choice for many systems
administrators – and also a strategic target for state-sponsored espionage operations.
In this section of the report, BlackBerry researchers lay bare how a quintet of APT
groups acting in the interest of the Chinese government - assessed to be offshoots of
the original WINNTI GROUP - developed the capability to exploit the “always-on, always
available” nature of Linux servers to establish an operations beachhead in targeted
networks while remaining almost entirely undetected for nearly a decade.