Russian-speaking activity
We continue to track the activities of Russian-speaking APT groups. These groups usually show
a particular interest in political activities, but apart from a couple of interesting exceptions we
failed to detect any remarkable examples during the last quarter.
We did find a potential connection between Hades and a leak at the RANA institute. Hades is
possibly connected to the Sofacy threat actor, most notable for being behind Olympic Destroyer,
as well as ExPetr and several disinformation campaigns such as the Macron leaks. Earlier this
year, a website named Hidden Reality published leaks allegedly related to an Iranian entity
named the RANA institute. This was the third leak in two months that disclosed details of alleged
Iranian threat actors and groups. Close analysis of the materials, the infrastructure and the
dedicated website used by those behind the leak led us to believe that these leaks might be
connected to Hades. This might be part of a disinformation campaign in which Hades helps to
raise doubts about the quality of the information leaked in other cases from earlier this year.
Zebrocy continued adding new tools to its arsenal using various kinds of programming languages.
We found Zebrocy deploying a compiled Python script, which we call PythocyDbg, within a
Southeast Asian foreign affairs organization: this module primarily provides for the stealthy
collection of network proxy and communications debug capabilities. In early 2019, Zebrocy shifted
its development efforts with the use of Nimrod/Nim, a programming language with syntax
resembling both Pascal and Python that can be compiled down to JavaScript or C targets. Both
the Nim downloaders that the group mainly uses for spear-phishing, and other Nim backdoor
code, are currently being produced by Zebrocy and delivered alongside updated compiled AutoIT
scripts, Go, and Delphi modules. The targets of this new Nimcy downloader and backdoor set
includes diplomats, defense officials and ministry of foreign affairs staff, from whom they want to
steal login credentials, keystrokes, communications, and various files. The group appears to have
turned its attention towards the March events involving Pakistan and India, and unrelated
diplomatic and military officials, while maintaining ongoing access to local and remote networks
belonging to Central Asian governments.
We also recently observed some interesting new artifacts that we relate to Turla with varying
degrees of confidence.
In April 2019, we observed a new COMpfun-related targeted campaign using new malware. The
Kaspersky Attribution Engine shows strong code similarities between the new family and the old
COMpfun. Moreover, the original COMpfun is used as a downloader in one of the spreading
mechanisms. We called the newly identified modules Reductor after a .pdb path left in some
samples. We believe the malware was developed by the same COMPfun authors that, internally,
we tentatively associated with the Turla APT, based on victimology. Besides the typical RAT
functions (upload, download, execute files), Reductor’s authors put a lot of effort into manipulating
installed digital root certificates and marking outbound TLS traffic with unique host-related
identifiers. The malware adds embedded root certificates to the target host and allows operators
to add additional ones remotely through a named pipe. The solution used by Reductor’s
developers to mark TLS traffic is the most ingenious part. The authors don’t touch the network
packets at all; instead they analyze Firefox source and Chrome binary code to patch the
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ corresponding system pseudo-random number generation (PRNG) functions in the process’s 2/8
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
memory. Browsers use PRNG to generate the “client random” sequence during the very
beginning of the TLS handshake. Reductor adds the victims’ unique encrypted hardware- and
software-based identifiers to this “client random” field.
Additionally we identified a new backdoor that we attribute with medium confidence to Turla. The
backdoor, named Tunnus, is .NET-based malware with the ability to run commands or perform file
actions on an infected system and send the results to its C2. So far, the C2 infrastructure has
been built using compromised sites with vulnerable WordPress installations. According to our
telemetry, Tunnus’s activity started last March and was still active at the time of writing.
ESET has also reported PowerShell scripts being used by Turla to provide direct, in-memory
loading and execution of malware. This is not the first time this threat actor has used PowerShell
in this way, but the group has improved these scripts and is now using them to load a wide range
of custom malware from its traditional arsenal. The payloads delivered via the PowerShell scripts
– the RPC backdoor and PowerStallion – are highly customized.
Symantec has also been tracking targeted attacks in a series of campaigns against governments
and international organizations across the globe over the past 18 months. The attacks have
featured a rapidly evolving toolset and, in one notable instance, the apparent hijacking of
infrastructure belonging to OilRig. They have uncovered evidence that the Waterbug APT group
(aka Turla, Snake, Uroburos, Venomous Bear and KRYPTON) has conducted a hostile takeover
of an attack platform belonging to OilRig (aka Crambus). Researchers at Symantec suspect that
Turla used the hijacked network to attack a Middle Eastern government that OilRig had already
penetrated. This is not the first time that we have seen this type of activity. Clearly, operations of
this kind make the job of attribution more difficult.
The international community continues to focus on the activity of Russian-speaking threat actors.
Over the last 18 months, the UK has shared information on attacks attributed to Russian hackers
with 16 NATO allies, including attacks on critical national infrastructure and attempts to
compromise central government networks. In his former capacity as UK foreign secretary, Jeremy
Hunt, recently urged nations to band together to create a deterrent for state-sponsored hackers.
As part of this push, the UK and its intelligence partners have been slowly moving towards a
‘name and shame’ approach when dealing with cyberattacks. The use of the ‘court of public
opinion’ in response to cyberattacks is a trend that we highlighted in our predictions for 2019. To
help this new strategy the EU recently passed new laws that will make it possible for EU member
states to impose economic sanctions against foreign hackers.
Researchers at the Microstep Intelligence Bureau have published a report on targeted attacks on
the Ukrainian government that they attribute to the Gamaredon threat actor. Recently, the group
launched attacks on a number of state organizations in Ukraine using Pterodo, malware used
exclusively by this group. Since February, the attackers have deployed a large number of
dynamic domain names and newly registered domain names believed to be used to launch
targeted attacks against elections in Ukraine.