The ICEBUCKET Operation
The ICEBUCKET operation presented its traffic as coming from a legitimate SSAI provider (based
on the inclusion of standard HTTP headers) for a variety of devices and apps, using custom code.
ICEBUCKET assembled requests for ads to be inserted into video content for viewers using CTV
and mobile devices, but none of those devices or viewers actually exist . The user-agents used in
the operation largely refer to obsolete device types that are no longer used in the general
population, or devices that never existed in the first place. The IP addresses showed signs of
being algorithmically generated to mimic desirable audiences.
These ad requests originated from a small set of Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs).
Autonomous Systems make up the back-end routing infrastructure of the internet, in the same
way that roads connect traffic between different cities. Each system is identified with a number,
the ASN, similar in function to a postal code. While we can’t know for sure the threat actor’s
motivation for using these ASNs in the operation, we can make a few comments on possible
reasons. The ASNs have:
Weak enforcement from network operators regarding malicious activity conducted from
their data center
Cheap Virtual Private Server (VPS) services available
A large number of hosts within that IP space that are vulnerable or otherwise left open for
exploitation
It is likely the actor behind ICEBUCKET operated from these ASNs due to their confidence that
their behavior would not be caught. Not all traffic from these ASNs are part of the ICEBUCKET
operation, as there is non-ICEBUCKET traffic from these ASNs as well.
The ICEBUCKET operation is unique in that a subset of the traffic is being generated to benefit
app publishers directly through direct deals. We've observed cases where such publishers are
mixing up organic and ICEBUCKET traffic in what seems to be early signs of traffic sourcing
schemes for CTV traffic. From our observation of this “mixed up” traffic, we have two hypothesis
as to why this would occur:
https://www.whiteops.com/blog/giving-fraudsters-the-cold-shoulder-inside-the-largest-connected-tv-bot-attack 4/8
4/17/2020 White Ops | Inside the Largest Connected TV Botnet Attack
Hiding the operation: By creating a subset of traffic that is not benefiting the operation
directly, the fraudsters have created noise around identifying the operation. The spoofed
apps are then unwitting beneficiaries to the generated traffic.
Fraud-as-a-service: The operation is generating traffic on behalf of the app publishers.
The subset of fraudulent activity becomes harder to detect, and the operation has an extra
revenue source for the scheme.
At this point, we cannot make a conclusive determination between these two possibilities. There
is the possibility that both of these options could be at play, depending on the particular subset of
the traffic in question.