Chronology of Russian Attacks (Timeline: Ten Years of Russian Cyber Attacks on Other, n.d.)
Russian cyber attacks normally occur in conjunction with geopolitical events. They are part of his overall scheme of hybrid
warfare. Amid a show of hybrid tactics, Putin has awarded financial support to fringe political movements in Western
Europe, launched cyberattacks and espionage in Europe, and ordered probing and actual attacks on U.S. and European
energy and communications infrastructure. He has continued to attempt to use control over energy – pipelines, nuclear
plants, natural gas supplies – to wield influence across Europe. Western intelligence reports say Russia has exacerbated
the Syrian migrant crisis. And, compounding the threat, Russia has formed a growing alliance with Iran and China, countries
that possess their own hybrid toolboxes of proxy warfare and cyber infiltration. (Mazarr, 2015) Another standard behavior
of hybrid warfare and one used against the energy sector.
Russia’s actions based upon ‘maskirovka’ deploys few military assets while coordinating multiple functions of
disinformation, psychological warfare, memetic enginerring, and deception to achieve goals. Russia’s actions are likened
to placing a frog in a pot of cool water on a stove. While slowly heating up the water, the frog finds it difficult to notice
the increasing temperatures until it is too late. All the time not knowing who actually placed him (the frog) in the water
and not knowing who continued to turn up the burner. Maskirovka translates to camoflage but is also defined as the
elements of surprise, diversion, and deception. Russia’s asymmetrical activity prevales on the internet, in social media,
and as truth and is inclusive of all functions of warfare. The methods are relatively cheap and capitalize on the years of
studying Western behaviors. Russia is able to hack, infiltrate, manipulate, and manage the perceptions of targets while
ensuring plausible deniability. They do so by using proxy groups, hackers for hire, and trained operatives all behind a
monitor and keyboard.

April - May 2007: Estonia, a tiny Baltic nation that was occupied by the Soviet Union until 1991, angered

Moscow by planning to move a Russian World War II memorial and Russian soldiers' graves. Russia retaliated
by temporarily disabling Estonia's internet, an especially harsh blow to the world's most internet-dependent
economy. The distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack focused on government offices and financial
institutions, disrupting communications.

June 2008: In a similar attack, Russia punished another former possession in the Baltic. When the Lithuanian

government outlawed the display of Soviet symbols, Russian hackers defaced government web pages with
hammer-and-sickles and five-pointed stars.

August 2008: After Georgia's pro-Western government sent troops into a breakaway republic backed by

Moscow, Russian land, sea and air units invaded the country - and Russian hackers attacked Georgia's internet,
the first-time Russia coordinated military, and cyber action. Georgia's internal communications were
effectively shut down.

January 2009: As part of an effort to persuade the president of Kyrgyzstan to evict an American military base,

Russian hackers shut down two of the country's four internet service providers with a DDOS attack. It worked.
Kyrgyzstan removed the military base. Subsequently, Kyrgyzstan received $2 billion in aid and loans from the
Kremlin.

April 2009: After a media outlet in Kazakhstan published a statement by Kazakhstan's president that criticized

Russia, a DDOS attack attributed to Russian elements shut down the outlet.

August 2009: Russian hackers shut down Twitter and Facebook in Georgia to commemorate the first

anniversary of the Russian invasion.

2014 – The Pentagon blamed Russia for a sophisticated hack into the White House’s unclassified email

correspondence and the State Department.

March 2014: For the second time, the Russian government allegedly coordinated military and cyber action. A

DDOS attack 32 times larger than the largest known attack used during Russia's invasion of Georgia disrupted
the internet in Ukraine while Russian-armed pro-Russian rebels were seizing control of the Crimea. (JohnIB,
n.d.)

May 2014: Three days before Ukraine's presidential election, a Russia-based hacking group, took down the

country's election commission in an overnight attack. Even a back-up system was taken down, but Ukrainian
computer experts were able to restore the system before election day. Ukrainian police say they arrested
hackers who were trying to rig the results. The attack was aimed at creating chaos and hurting the nationalist
candidate while helping the pro-Russian candidate. Russia's preferred candidate lost.
o BlackEnergy Chronology
     - 2007 - The first version of BlackEnergy appeared in 2007 used to launch DDoS attacks, create

botnets and steal banking credentials and so on. (Antiy, n.d.)
     - 2008 - During the Russian-Georgian conflict, BlackEnergy used to conduct cyber-attacks against

Georgia.
     - 2009 - In Citibank attack, the attacker had stolen tens of millions of dollars.

     - 2010 - BlackEnergy2 is released in 2010 supporting more plug-in features.

     - 2014 - The updated version BlackEnergy defined Ukraine and Poland as its attack targets.

     - October 2014 - BlackEnergy attacks HMI of several providers, the victims include GE, Advantech

WebAccess, SiemensWinCC.
     - 14 October 2014 - iSIGHT discovered BlackEnergy sample which is delivered via CVE-2014-4114.

     - November 2014 - Attack the devices of Linux and Cisco.

     - December 2014 - The Information Security Report published German Federal Office for

Information Security (BSI) in 2014 a cyber-attack against the infrastructure of one German mill.
The attack caused significant physical damage. Reports indicated that the incident was related to
BlackEnergy.
     - November 2015 - During the presidential election in Ukraine, KillDisk infected several media

agencies.
     - December 2015 - Ukraine government asserted that BlackEnergy should responsible for the

blackout incidents in the region of Lavno-Franklvst of Ukraine.

May 2015: German investigators discovered hackers had penetrated the computer network of the German

Bundestag, the most significant hack in German history. The Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz (BfV),
German's domestic intelligence service, later said Russia was behind the attack and that they were seeking
information not just on the workings of the Bundestag, but German leaders and NATO, among others. Security
experts said hackers were trying to penetrate the computers of Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian
Democratic party.

2015 – France Russia sought to destroy France’s TV5Monde channel via an April 2015 cyberattack. The attack

took the channel off air for several hours.

October 2015 - At the November NATO meeting in Bulgaria, its prime minister explained that Starting on 25

October, websites of the council of ministers of Parliament and the central election committee were attacked
through cyber capabilities in an unprecedented way. The Prime Minister blamed the Russians for the attacks,
as it also coincided with increased incursions into their airspace by Russian planes.

2015: Turkey blamed Russia for a massive cyber-attack that forced it to close external traffic to NIC.tr, making

it impossible to access or send email from .tr addresses. Turkey had been at odds with Russia after shooting
down a Russian plane in its airspace.

2016: US Democratic National Committee. Starting with the Democratic National Convention and continuing

into the fall campaign, Julian Assange’s WikiLeaks has released emails purportedly coming from the
Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign. A Joint Statement from the Department of
Homeland Security and Office of the Director of National Intelligence put the blame squarely on the Russians.