Crimeware as a service
It can be helpful to think of malware makers as a form of software startup. Scrappy at first, the successful
makers eventually earn a loyal following. And there can be just as many business models for malicious
software as there are for legitimate software.
The term “crimeware” is intentionally broad; some creators of malware, or of the tools that enable malware
to be delivered with ease or to enhance it with new features, don’t sell their product outright, but license it
as you might buy a one-year license for the Adobe Creative Suite. We’ve called this class of business model
“crimeware-as-a-service,” (CaaS) and it seems poised to be the new normal.
One of the more notorious examples of a CaaS malware is Emotet. The spam-delivered trojan has been
around for years, and seems to be centered around a smooth experience for the would-be criminal. Emotet
is one of a class of malware collectively referred to by security researchers as loaders. Emotet exists
primarily to deliver other malware to a target’s computer. It accomplishes this job with a sophisticated
network that distributes weaponized spam emails to large volumes of targets.
Fig.14. Source: SophosLabs.
November 2020 21
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
Emotet, however, has gone through two dark periods so far this year. The malware remained in
communication with its C2 servers over a nearly five-month period in which the spam emails that normally
deliver attacks evaporated completely. Spam emails delivering Emotet mysteriously resumed in July.
Dharma ransomware is another CaaS malware of note. Unlike its pricier relations, Dharma maintains a fixed,
small ransom. The reason comes down to Dharma’s business model: It’s the ransomware with training
wheels on, for aspiring criminals who need to learn the ropes. Those criminals pay essentially a subscription
fee to obtain payloads from the Dharma creators, and split the proceeds of any attacks with them.
As attackers branch out into specialties and sub-specialties, it seems the business model in which
criminals work with independent contractors, freelancers and affiliates is one that doesn’t seem to be going
away anytime soon.