It’s possible that #Fanny was used to map some of the future targets of #Stuxnet #EquationAPT #TheSAS2015
While Fanny doesn’t rigorously protect data in hidden storage (it doesn’t
mark the allocated space as bad blocks, probably to avoid attention), it
changes the filesystem driver hint value indicating where to look for the
next free cluster. In this way it reserves disk space of approximately 1Mb in
size to use for a hidden storage.
When Fanny detects a new USB drive, with the help of its own FAT driver it
looks into the root directory and locates the entry which starts with magic
value 51 50 40 98 (see above). It then uses the offset which follows the
flag value of 0x18. On the figure above it is set to 0x001e9c00. This offset
on the same USB disk will have another magic value D0 CF CE CD serving
as a marker for the beginning of the hidden storage:
Hexdump of Fanny hidden storage with list of running processes
Once Fanny has allocated space for hidden storage it populates the
storage with basic information about the current system: i.e. OS Version,
Service Pack number, computer name, user name, company name, list of
running processes, etc.
This secret storage is also used to pass commands to computers that are
not connected to the Internet. According to Fanny code, the container
may carry additional components and internal commands: such as to
copy certain file from the local filesystem to the USB drive (locations are
defined as parameters, the file is set hidden and system file attributes), or
to update the configuration block. It uses RC4 with the following hard
coded key to protect critical information:
18 05 39 44 AB 19 78 88 C4 13 33 27 D5 10 6C 25
When the USB drive travels to another infected computer connected to
the Internet it can be used to carry important files and provide a way to
interact with the operator. This simple and extremely slow method of
communication is not used by traditional cybercriminals, that is why the
whole code looks like a toolkit for professional cyberespionage. This
component is one of the rare malware samples from a new class of
malware called USB-Backdoors.
If you find this or a similar code of USB-Backdoor on some of your
systems this is an indicator of a professional cyberattack.