Zhejiang University ( 浙江大学 )
Connections to the Security Services
Zhejiang University is a highly-respected, internationally renowned
school for cybersecurity studies. Unsurprisingly, the PLA vigorously
recruited graduates of its program at the time Mandiant published
its APT1 report in 2013. [76] A report prepared for the U.S.-China
Economic and Security Review Commission by Northrop Grumman
found that Zhejiang University received funding from three
secretive programs for information security research: China’s
National 242 Information Security Program (国家 242 信息安全计
划项目), the Ministry of State Security 115 Program (国家安全部
115), and the National s219 Information Security Application
Demonstration Project (国家 s219 信息安全应用示范工程). [77] The
report also concludes that universities which received these funds
were selected to conduct “sensitive research and development
with information security and information warfare applications.” [78]
Though never tied to a specific hacking campaign, this report finds
that Zhejiang University has collaborated on research with
members of the PLA SSF. Zhejiang University academics co
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 19
authored a research paper with members of PLA Unit 61646 in
2018. [79] Also known as the Air Reconnaissance Bureau, Unit 61646
was originally organized under the PLA General Staff Department’s
2 [nd] Department and responsible for military intelligence until its
reorganization in 2015-16. [80] The joint paper evaluated SM4, a
then-common encryption protocol that played an “important role as
a national encryption standard” in China. [81] Together, Zhejiang
University academics and members of Unit 61646 concluded that
SM4 encryption protocol is weak and easy to circumvent.
Research on AI/ML + Cybersecurity
Classes taught at, and research conducted by, Zhejiang University
suggest the school’s graduates are well prepared for jobs involving
cyber operations, making them great recruits for China’s security
services and national champion companies alike. Indeed, the joint
Zhejiang University-Fudan University team beat the team from
Carnegie Mellon in the 2020 DEFCON Capture-the-Flag
competition. [82]
Cybersecurity is not the only relevant area of focus at Zhejiang
University, as the school is also teaching undergraduate students
how to attack and defend AI/ML systems. [83] Under its Applied
Security curriculum, Zhejiang University teaches AI-related courses
including: Algorithm and Model Security, Backdoors in Models,
Data Poisoning, Adversarial Example Attacks, Measures for
Defending Against Adversarial Example Attacks, and Certifiable
Security for AI (人工智能可证明性安全). [84] In addition, Zhejiang
University’s Applied Security program is conducting research on
“malicious machine learning” (恶意机器学习). [85]
Each of these topics is central to protecting or attacking AI
systems. Data poisoning attacks target the training data of a
model; manipulating the inputs in such a way that the deployed
system fails to function properly. [86] Undetected data poisoning
attacks can slow the development of a system, increasing costs
and undermining its functionality. Other vulnerabilities allow
attackers to make models fail in specific, predictable ways.
Backdoors in models allow for the attackers to designate a specific
outcome given a certain trigger. [87] A backdoor attack against a
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 20
facial recognition model could allow anyone wearing a purple hat
to be recognized as a particular person, for example. Defending
against these types of attacks is critical for any organization or
business integrating AI models into operations.
In the course of their degrees on cybersecurity, AI and information
security at Zhejiang University, students pick up some
government-focused skills along the way. The program offers
courses on intelligence [88] entitled: “the evolution and definition of
strategic intelligence, the relationship between induction and
deduction in intelligence research, intelligence classification, and
crafting [intelligence] reports." [89] Understanding the intelligence
cycle and writing intelligence products is likely to be of little
relevance to employees outside the national security sector.
Combined with classes on AI vulnerabilities—which require
familiarity with how systems can be attacked—the evidence
suggests that Zhejiang University students are well-prepared for a
job in the security services. [90]
Full-time faculty at Zhejiang University who teach AI/ML attack and
defense classes are on the cutting-edge of research in the area. Dr.
Ji Shouling (纪守领), an international participant on eight US
National Science Foundation-funded research projects, recipient of
the China’s 1000 Young Talents Program (2017) and the Zhejiang
1000 Talent Program (2016), has his own research institute at
Zhejiang University which conducts research on AI for
cybersecurity. [91] In an arrangement that typifies the issues of
China’s talent programs, Ji simultaneously holds a research faculty
position at Georgia Institute of Technology. One non-NSF paper
published by Ji proposes a tool called “VulnSniper,” which uses
neural networks to find new software vulnerabilities. [92] It is one
example from dozens of papers published by Ji’s research program
at Zhejiang University.
Dr. Yang Ziqi (杨子祺), another professor in the cybersecurity
program, focuses his research on the attack and defense of AI
systems. After receiving his doctorate from Singapore National
University, Yang conducted research for the Singapore
Cybersecurity Agency National Lab, Kaspersky Labs, and Huawei.
Yang’s research on AI security includes model inversion,
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 21
membership interference, adversarial attack and defense, and
backdoors in models. [93] Membership interference attacks pair well
with Yang’s other research into model inversion of commercially
available facial recognition systems. [94] Together, these two
techniques can determine whether a particular face is recognized
by a targeted facial recognition system. Other applications of
Yang’s research include using AI to trace the origins of malware
binaries based on information about the compiling author. [95]
In addition to full-time professors conducting research, Zhejiang
University has hosted many guest lectures on attacking AI systems
and defending their vulnerabilities. Topics from guest lecturers
have included: Neural Network Inversion in Adversarial Settings [96],
Attack and Defense of Deep Neural Network Models [97], Federated
Learning-Oriented User Privacy Attacks [98], Data Set Inference and
Reconstruction Attacks in Online Learning [99], and Stealthy Attacks
Against Automatic Speech Recognition. [100] These attacks pose
myriad problems for users of AI systems. Neural network
inversions reveal technical details about the data used to train a
specific model—potentially exposing sensitive or classified data
used in training the model. [101] Other attacks, rather than exposing
information, manipulate mundane systems to the attacker’s
advantage. The presentation on “Stealthy Attacks Against
Automatic Speech Recognition” systems demonstrated how to
embed secret commands in songs, which when played, can direct
virtual assistants—like Google Home, Amazon Echo, or Apple’s
Siri—to perform certain tasks. Though research of this nature is
common in cybersecurity, the relationship between Zhejiang
University and China’s cyber operators is uncommon. Moreover, a
recent CSET report demonstrates how hard it is to defend AI
systems—vulnerabilities are pervasive and defensive techniques
are often only temporary patches. [102] As more organizations and
governments deploy AI systems, the attack surface for such
techniques will grow.
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 22