Other interesting discoveries
In December we were made aware of a UEFI firmware-level compromise through logs
from our firmware scanning technology. Further analysis showed that the attackers
modified a single component within the firmware to append a payload to one of its
sections and incorporate inline hooks within particular functions. These changes allowed
the attackers to intercept the original flow of the firmware code and have it executed
alongside a sophisticated infection chain. The introduced malicious flow, in turn, is in
charge of persistently executing a malware stager from a Windows service once the
operating system is running. By examining other IoCs from the same network, we
gathered a trove of evidence that led us to assess, with medium-to-high confidence, that
the threat actor involved is closely tied to the APT41 group. More specifically, we
inspected communication of other nodes in the same network to infrastructure related to
the server from which the payload is retrieved by the malicious stager. This traffic
originated from an in-memory modular implant dubbed ScrambleCross, known to be in
use by APT41 or a closely affiliated actor. Although we have covered several UEFI-based
infections in APT reports in the last few months, those were cases operating through
modifications introduced to the Windows boot loader image, which resides on the ESP
partition on disk and can be remediated through a reinstallation of the operating system.
In this case, however, the malware was found in an image typically based in the SPI flash,
which is outside the hard disk and therefore withstands formatting or disk replacement.
To the best of our knowledge, this is only the third known case found in the wild of a
comparable UEFI implant, following LowJax and MosaicRegressor.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2022/106351/ 8/10
5/4/22, 12:47 PM APT trends report Q1 2022 | Securelist
While hunting for recent Deathstalker intrusions, we identified a new Janicab variant
used in targeting legal entities in the Middle East during 2020, possibly active into early
2021 and potentially extending an extensive campaign that can be traced back to early
2015 targeting legal, financial and travel organizations in the Middle East and Europe.
Janicab was first introduced in 2013 as malware able to run on macOS and Windows
operating systems. The Windows version has a VBS script-based implant as the final
stage, instead of the C#/PowerShell combination observed previously in Powersing
samples. The VBS-based implant samples we have identified to date have a range of
version numbers, meaning it was, and still is, in development. Overall, Janicab shows the
same functionalities as its counterpart malware families, but instead of downloading
several tools later in the intrusion lifecycle, as the group used to do with EVILNUM and
Powersing intrusions, the analyzed samples have most of the tools embedded and
obfuscated within the dropper. Interestingly, the threat actor continues to use YouTube,
Google+, and WordPress web services as Dead Drop Resolvers (DDRs). However, some of
the YouTube links observed are unlisted and go back to 2015, indicating possible re-use of
infrastructure. Law firms and financial institutions remain the sectors most affected by
DeathStalker. However, in the intrusions we analyzed recently, we suspect that travel
agencies are a new vertical that we haven’t previously seen this threat actor targeting.
We recently identified additional malicious activities, conducted by Tomiris operators
since at least October 2021, against government, telecoms and engineering organizations
in Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan and Russia. In July 2021, we reported the previously
unknown Tomiris Golang backdoor, deployed against government organizations within a
CIS country through DNS hijacking. We exposed similarities between DarkHalo’s
SunShuttle backdoor and the Tomiris implant. Later in 2021, we uncovered associated
malicious activities that also used the open-source RATel implant to target several
government organizations within Russia and Central Asia, while drawing an additional
possible link between Tomiris operators and UNC1514.