3. INTRUSION OVERVIEW
3.1 ANATOMY OF ATTACK
In researching this white paper, the majority of intelligence and incident
reports reviewed described phishing and malicious document-related tactics
being utilized by CARBANAK actors as a method of initial compromise.
However, the initial method of compromise observed during this engagement
utilized the Apache Struts Content-Type arbitrary command execution
vulnerability, CVE-2017-5638 . [10] This vulnerability has since been patched
by the Apache Software Foundation, and the recommended remediation
process is available on their website. [11] While the time-tested method of
compromising the user base as the initial ingress method is still very effective,
server-level compromises commonly give attackers a significant escalation
compromise while making it harder for defenders to stop them on the initially
compromised system. An anatomy of the engagement, broken into the
primary stages, is illustrated in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Staged Overview of Engagement
Upon determining that the initially compromised web server, designated as
system ALPHA, was vulnerable to CVE-2017-5638, the rest of the attacker
actions could be grouped into the eight stages illustrated in Figure 2. These
phases are described further in the remainder of Section 3. All binaries, with
the exception of the ‘b’ Perl script, are described in detail in Section 4.
10 “Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures”;
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-5638
11 “Apache Struts Documentation: S2-046”; https://struts.apache.org/docs/s2-046.html
WHITE PAPER
3.1.1 Phase 1: D+0
Initial Compromise, Initial Code Execution
Attackers from IP 185.117.88.97 utilize CVE-2017-5638 to download
and execute a Perl script on ALPHA . The Perl script was downloaded via
WGET from IP 95.215.45.116 . This action constitutes the moment of initial
compromise and is referenced in this document as “D.” All other times
discussed in this report will use this moment as a reference in their notation,
such that “D+2” refers to two days after initial compromise. The metadata
created by RSA NetWitness Suite describing this action is shown in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Perl Script Download from 95.215.46.116
3.1.2 Phase 2: D+0
Internal Reconnaissance, Privilege Escalation, Persistence
Six minutes after the download and execution of the Perl script, system
ALPHA began communicating with IP address 95.215.46.116 via IRC. While
the available full packet capture retention did not extend to this date at the
time of analysis, the metadata created was still available. While RSA was
unable to review the raw data to determine actions taken, RSA IR was able to
determine traffic type, as well as infer the intention of the nature of actions
taken via this channel. It appeared that this IRC communication was a method
of remote command execution conducted by the attackers, evidenced by
the presence of an output from the “w” User Activity Linux binary. This is
illustrated in Figure 4.
8
9
WHITE PAPER
Figure 4: Metadata Showing ‘w’ Output, Actions and Port Usage in IRC Traffic
While the attackers attempted to use the ‘sudo’ administrative privilege
binary to gain root access, the privilege-separation user the web server
was running as did not have the necessary permission. In response to this,
the attackers downloaded a copy of C source Proof of Concept (PoC) code
written by “KrE80r” to exploit the Linux Kernel Copy-on-Write “Dirty COW”
vulnerability, CVE-2016-5195 . [12] This vulnerability has since been resolved
by the major Linux distributions, with the list of patched kernels found on
GitHub. [13] At the same time, the attackers downloaded a Bash shell script as
a driver for the exploit code, named ‘1.sh’. This allowed the attackers to gain
root privileges on the system at the 27-minute mark. The observed download
is shown in Figure 5.
Figure 5: Download of CVE-2016-5195 Exploit Code and Bash Script Driver
12 “Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures”;
https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5195
13 Benvenuto; “Patched Kernel Versions”;
https://github.com/dirtycow/dirtycow.github.io/wiki/Patched-Kernel-Versions
10
WHITE PAPER
While the attackers now had root level access, they did not have user
credentials to move laterally within the environment. In order to gain that
access, the attackers downloaded versions of the OpenSSH 5.3p1 client and
server binaries that had been trojanized with malware known as SSHDOOR, [14]
and installed them onto host ALPHA . The SSHDOOR malware will beacon out
to IP 185.61.148.96 every 10 minutes until a response is received. A secondary
function of this malware was credential theft, by which SSHDOOR sends the
username, password and source/destination host to the attackers. The attackers
then disengage, leaving the malware to collect credentials until the next day.
3.1.3 Phase 3: D+1 through D+3
Lateral Movement, Secondary Ingress, Internal Reconnaissance,
Credential Harvesting
Upon gaining credentials via the SSHDOOR malware, attackers respond to
the SSHDOOR beaconing and establish an SSH tunnel to IP 95.215.46.116
over TCP port 443. In reviewing the configuration and running processes on
ALPHA, the attackers observed that the system was running winbind, the UNIX
implementations of Microsoft RPC, Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM)
and the name service switch (NSS). This service allows for unified logins across
UNIX systems and Microsoft Windows Active Directory (AD). Winbind is a
component of samba, the Windows interoperability suite for Linux and UNIX,
which stores information about Windows Active Directory in its configuration
files. After observing this service running on the system, the attackers checked
these configuration files for the DNS names of the Microsoft Windows Domain
Controllers used by winbind to authenticate AD accounts. Upon conducting
a DNS query for the domain name in the configuration file, the attackers
gained the names and IP addresses of the two primary DNS servers (also
Windows Domain Controllers) and the server listed in the configuration file.
Subsequently, the attackers download a tool named WINEXE, a Linux binary
that allows remote command execution on Windows systems.
14 “Linux.Sshdoor”;
https://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2013-012808-1032-99
WHITE PAPER
Figure 6: Download of Winexe via WGET to ALPHA
The attackers used credentials taken by the SSHDOOR malware to log in to
each of the Windows servers, running the qwinsta.exe and tasklist.exe binaries
on each and then logging out.
3.1.4 Phase 4: D+3 through D+25
Privilege Escalation, Internal Reconnaissance, Persistence, Entrenchment,
Lateral Movement
The attackers also observed that one of the Windows Domain-authenticated
credentials stolen was the service account for the client’s authenticated
vulnerability scans, and was present in the local ‘sudoers’ file. Having determined
the current level of access available to them, the attackers decided to download
additional tools in order to establish a static entry point into the environment
ensuring they could avoid detection. To accomplish this, the attackers
downloaded the PSCAN TCP port scanner and the ALW Advanced Log Wiper
binaries and began identifying systems and services accessible from ALPHA.
11
12
WHITE PAPER
Figure 7: Download of ALW and PSCAN from 95.215.46.116
One of these systems was the Red Hat Satellite server, which is the primary
enterprise update server for Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) deployments.
Given that the Satellite server requires the ability to interact with all other
systems under the root user in order to update software, the attackers
chose this system as their initial primary staging system. This system was
designated system BRAVO . From BRAVO, the attackers traversed the
Linux environment through stolen credentials and SSH pre-shared keys and
conducted internal reconnaissance on any Windows systems within direct
network access. During this time, the attackers strictly contained all malicious
files, secondary tools and ingress network communication to the Linux
environment. Additionally, they consistently tested the Struts vulnerability
on host ALPHA to ensure the initial method of compromise was open, and to
alert them to any possible remediation of that system.
3.1.5 Phase 5: D+25 through D+30
Disruption, Adaptive Action, Entrenchment, Lateral Movement, Persistence
The discovery of the Struts vulnerability on host ALPHA, and its subsequent
remediation, gave the attackers a moment of pause, and they migrated a copy
of the SSHDOOR client and server to the centralized Syslog server, along
with a copy of WINEXE, the ALW Log Wiper and their own SSH pre-shared
key, all of which they had installed on seven key systems at this point. They
13
WHITE PAPER
utilized the ALW log wiper on the Syslog server, designated system CHARLIE,
in order to remove any log traces of their activities to date at the centralized
source and hinder any follow-on investigations. The attackers would use
system CHARLIE as their primary Linux egress point for the rest of the
incident, though they would ensure that the SSHDOOR binaries remained
on BRAVO as a backup ingress mechanism. Additionally, they downloaded
the AUDITUNNEL Reverse Tunneling tool to host CHARLIE and began using
this as their primary method of ingress to the Linux environment. This was
assumedly done to transition to a new ingress method should any investigation
around the remediation of ALPHA identify the SSHDOOR malware.
Figure 8: AUDITUNNEL Download from 95.215.46.116
To ensure they could retain access, they replaced SSHDOOR with
AUDITUNNEL on four of the key systems. They ceased any significant
operation into the environment until D+29, at which time both the SSHDOOR
and AUDITUNNEL ingress methods were still operational. On D+30, the
attackers migrate into the Windows server environment proper to find an
appropriate staging system to install malware and begin staging ingress within
the Windows environment. After three failed attempts, the attackers find a
Windows Domain Controller with Internet access, designated system DELTA .
3.1.6 Phase 6: D+30 through D+44
Lateral Movement, Persistence, Entrenchment, Internal Reconnaissance,
Credential Harvesting
Once firmly on DELTA, the attackers downloaded and installed the GOTROJ
malware as their primary method of ingress into the Windows environment.
At this point, they have secured nine methods of ingress into the environment
across three different ingress methods. In order to ensure ingress via the
GOTROJ channel, the actors execute the malware into memory on three
additional systems, putting the system ingress count at twelve systems. Once
the malware is persistent and tested on DELTA, the attackers download a
Windows version of WGET and the TINYP lateral movement tool to system
DELTA and begin traversing the Windows environment. As they move through
14
WHITE PAPER
the environment, they download a secondary version of TINYP, a host
reconnaissance tool called INFOS, a process listing tool called CCS, a custom
version of MIMIKATZ, a Windows version of the previously mentioned PSCAN
scanner, and the PuTTY Secure Copy tool called PSCP .
Figure 9: Windows Toolset Download of WGET, TINYP, INFOS, CCS, MIMIKATZ,
PSCP and PSCAN
During this time, it becomes quickly apparent that the attackers are targeting
critical financial data, based on commands, string searches and lateral
movement decisions conducted by the attackers. This continues until D+43/
D+44, at which time a coordinated expulsion event took place and post
remediation activities began.
3.2 DETECTION AND RESPONSE
The client contacted RSA IR when system administrators observed anomalies
associated with the ‘root’ user on system ALPHA during remediation. These
anomalies were brought to the attention of client security personnel. The
CVE-2017-5638 vulnerability present on system ALPHA was identified 25
days (D+25) after the initial compromise when hundreds of thousands of
successful vulnerability scanning and exploit sessions against the system were
observed. The vulnerability was determined to have been introduced by an
out-of-band source installation of an affected version of Apache Struts, which
had been installed by the web developers. While the organization had taken
the necessary steps to remediate and patch all systems reported vulnerable to
CVE-2017-5638, the vulnerable web page on system ALPHA was not detected
due to the web server and operating system reporting that the affected
package was not installed. Based on the extensive number of successful exploit
attempts that ranged from the return of a pre-defined character string to
successful downloading and execution of malicious code, system ALPHA was
removed from service, a forensic image was obtained for in-depth analysis
and the system was restored and remediated. The forensic image was made
15
WHITE PAPER
available to RSA IR upon engagement of services, with RSA IR beginning threat
hunting actions and follow-on investigations on D+35.
During threat hunting operations conducted in concert with client analysts,
RSA IR identified increasingly suspect outbound binary and administrative
network communication being conducted with external internet hosts.
Specifically, RSA IR observed the GOTROJ traffic communicating outbound to
IP 107.181.246.146, and client analysts observed the PSEXESVC.exe service
binary present and executing on system DELTA. Both of these initial findings
are shown in Figure 10 and Figure 11, respectively.
Figure 10: Initial Finding of GOTROJ Communications with Suspect Meta
Figure 11: Initial Finding of TINYP Lateral Movement
Correlation of these suspect security events was declared an incident on
D+35, with RSA IR being immediately engaged for incident response services.
At this point in the intrusion, the attackers had just entered Stage 5, as
described in Section 3.1.5.
Utilizing RSA NetWitness Logs and Packets for network visibility, RSA IR
identified all network communication channels utilized by the attackers for
the duration of the incident. This assisted greatly in conducting root cause
analysis and intrusion scoping, as a significant amount of host forensic
artifacts had been destroyed, bypassed or made unusable by the attackers.
WHITE PAPER
Additionally, the use of this level of visibility allowed RSA IR to conduct
network protocol analysis on the command and control (C2) communication
payloads, which led to the capability to decrypt attacker C2 communications
within minutes of their occurrence. This level of visibility into attacker activity
greatly assisted in containment, eradication and remediation efforts, which
concluded on D+44. Upon conclusion of the incident, RSA IR determined that
the attackers had accessed 154 systems, the majority of which were accessed
laterally via ingress channels established on systems ALPHA, BRAVO,
CHARLIE and DELTA. Follow-on analysis of acquired host, network and disk
forensic data occurred in parallel with continuous monitoring and Threat
Hunting operations until incident closure on D+74.
Utilizing RSA NetWitness Endpoint for host visibility, RSA IR was able to
observe and track specific behavioral indicators of compromise (IOCs)
identifying attacker activity within the environment. As the attackers were
particularly careful to remove all traces of their activity upon completion
and ensure their tools were on disk while in use, many traditional artifacts or
log-based incident response and forensics methodologies would have been
ineffective in identifying, investigating and responding to these attackers’
methods. However, utilizing RSA NetWitness Endpoint in concert with RSA
NetWitness Logs and Packets allowed RSA IR to use the attackers’ methods
as IOCs, such as specific file download methods with subsequent deletions,
specific command-line arguments used by the attackers for lateral movement,
and specific Windows user status command executions.
16
17
WHITE PAPER