Sardonic backdoor
The Sardonic backdoor is written in C++ and has the same C&C servers as the downloader shellcode (“api-cdn[.]
net ”, “git-api[.]com”, “api-cdnw5[.]net”), and talks over port 443 as well. It can obtain information about the
system, execute commands, and has a plugin system that can load specially made DLLs and execute their functions.
We believe that more than one person developed this project, as there are some differences in code style and level of
use of the C++ standard library between functions.
Protocol
Communication with the C&C server, both by the downloader shellcode and the backdoor binary, is performed using a
custom little-endian binary protocol with a 12-byte header. The first 4 bytes contain the size of the payload (excluding
header), the next 4 bytes contain some flags (meanings are unknown, but a flag of 4 is used for messages from the
client to the server), and the last 4 bytes of the header contain a 32-bit operation code (either a command or response
type). The payload follows the 12-byte header, and its structure depends on the operation code.
7
Bitdefender Whitepaper
FIN8 Threat Actor Goes Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor
Fig. 5: Sardonic C&C communication binary protocol
Every packet sent to the C&C server contains a client ID made of 32 uppercase hex characters. This is constructed
from the computer name, CPUID instruction results (number of fields and CPU manufacturer name), and C:\ drive
serial number, processed down to 16 bytes that are then hex-encoded.
Only one connection with any of the three C&C servers can be open at any time. Additionally, the first server to have
port 443 open will be used exclusively, even if it does not respond according to the protocol. The communication
flow is as follows: immediately after connection, the client sends a packet containing its client ID. After that, until one
of the parties closes the socket, repeatedly, the server sends a command and the client responds with a report that
contains a maximum of 64KB (65536 bytes) of text data.
Despite running on port 443, no TLS encryption is used. Instead, the communication is initially plaintext, but the
server can enable encryption at any time by sending a packet with the operation code 0x39. The client generates
a random 64-byte RC4 key at startup and, at the server’s request, sends it encrypted using an RSA public key. All
following communication in either direction will have the payload (but not the header) encrypted with that RC4 key.
Although the encryption features might seem comprehensive at first glance, using a mix of symmetric and
asymmetric encryption, it can be easily defeated either through a man-in-the-middle attack, where a third party could
communicate with the client in plain text and impersonate it to the server, or by using the fact that the private RSA
key is publicly available. The public key comes from an open-source X.509 certificate used for testing in the OpenSSL
repository, “/C=AU/ST=Queensland/O=CryptSoft Pty Ltd/CN=Test CA (1024 bit)”, whose private key
is also known. This is an unusual choice: the certificate is very old (issued on Dec. 5, 1999 and expired on June 10,
2005) and creating an RSA key pair is very easy. The result of this oversight is that, by identifying RSA-encrypted
packets and extracting the RC4 key inside them, the entire communication can be decrypted from a traffic capture,
which can be very useful in a forensic investigation.
Common backdoor commands
The Sardonic backdoor seems to be still under development; while analyzing the samples, we found a few commands
for which the binary protocol parsing is implemented, but the execution of those commands is not implemented.
However, Sardonic already provides enough features for the threat actors to complete their job.
A common feature in backdoors is the ability to execute a shell command and send its output back to the C&C server.
For Sardonic, this behavior is triggered by a packet with operation code 0x4D, with the command line as an argument.
The backdoor runs it with the standard output and error streams redirected to memory using a pipe. After the
command finishes, the output is sent to the C&C server.
Implemented in most backdoors is the ability to gather information about the system, which is then sent to the C&C
server. When the server sends a packet with operation code 0x43, a JSON string is created, containing the following
fields in this order:


“ver”: version string; we’ve seen “v2.2.1r”, “v2.2.4r”, and we have seen different samples with the same
version string.


“modules”: space-separated list of installed plugins (which will be explained below)


“systeminfo”: output of “cmd /c chcp 65001 & systeminfo”


“netview”: output of “cmd /c chcp 65001 & net view”


“ netstat ”: output of “cmd /c chcp 65001 & netstat /naop TCP”


8
Bitdefender Whitepaper
FIN8 Threat Actor Goes Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor


“tasklist”: output of “cmd /c chcp 65001 & tasklist /v”


“netstart”: output of “cmd /c chcp 65001 & net start”


“ipconfig”: output of “cmd /c chcp 65001 & ipconfig”
Interestingly, the shell command outputs are not properly escaped. In version v2.2.1r, no escaping is done, and
the abundance of newlines alone violates the JSON standard. Even if that can be ignored by a custom JSON parser,
a stray double quote in one of the command outputs can cause the string to end prematurely, which almost certainly
leads to unparseable JSON. This is partially fixed in version v2.2.4r, which converts double quote characters inside
command outputs to single quote characters. This fixes the critical bug mentioned above, but still requires a nonstandards-compliant JSON parser that allows newlines and other special characters unescaped inside strings.


The system information feature is the only one we saw developed between versions; fields “netstat”, “tasklist”,
“netstart” have been added between v2.2.1r and v2.2.4r.
Finally, when a packet with operation code 0xB1 is received, the backdoor exits.
Plugin system
Sardonic plugins are MZPE DLLs with a Run exported function taking 3 arguments (argument count, array of nullterminated argument strings, and a 64KB output buffer), and an optional Stop exported function taking 2 arguments
(reason integer and a 64KB output buffer). The output buffers are sent to the C&C as part of the report. The plugins
are identified by a C&C-given name, and are saved and executed in memory (fileless operation). Command names in
this section are obtained from Runtime Type Information (RTTI).
To install a plugin, the C&C sends an Update command (operation code 0x25), which contains a plugin name and its
image data. Counterintuitively, given the command name, the plugin name must not already exist. The DLL data is
saved to memory unprocessed, and the plugin is not loaded or executed yet.
To execute an installed plugin, a Run command must be sent (operation code 0x1B), specifying a plugin name and an
arbitrary number of function parameters. The name is looked up in the list of installed plugins and loaded in memory
(sections are copied, imports are resolved, relocations are applied, the TLS directory is loaded and the DLL entry point
is executed). Then, the module’s Run export is executed with the supplied arguments. After it finishes, the function’s
output is sent in the report.
An additional command, RunModule (operation code 0x9D), is implemented, which bundles the Update and Run
commands, installing a new module and executing it in a single step.
When a plugin needs to be stopped, a StopModule command is issued, giving it a module name and stop reason
integer. The plugin’s Stop method is executed and its output is, as before, sent in the report. Then, the module is
unloaded, but its DLL image data is kept and can be executed again with a subsequent Run command.
An overview of plugin commands is depicted in figure 6.
9
Bitdefender Whitepaper
FIN8 Threat Actor Goes Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor
Fig. 6: Sardonic plugin commands
Unimplemented commands
From unused code and Runtime Type Information added by the compiler, we can infer a few features for which the
parsing was implemented, but not the execution.
An Install command exists, having the same operation code as the one used by the downloader shellcode in the
previous stage when requesting and receiving the backdoor DLL. The backdoor can apparently understand these
packets but can’t execute them yet.
Another interesting command name is Multiplex . This command’s parsing in the binary protocol is assigned to
multiple operation codes, which points to a large number of variations, but we can only speculate on its use.
Surprisingly, commands related to file manipulations are not implemented, but can still be performed by running shell
commands or through a plugin. However, we found parsing for an Upload command, which we assume would be a file
upload feature.
10
Bitdefender Whitepaper
FIN8 Threat Actor Goes Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor