Tactical Intelligence Assessments:
• The WINNTI Approach: Five APT groups acting in the interest of the Chinese
government and assessed to be employing WINNTI-style tooling have taken strategic
aim at Linux servers that serve a critical role in enterprise network environments and
have done so while remaining relatively undetected for nearly a decade. These groups
target Red Hat Enterprise, CentOS, and Ubuntu Linux environments systemically
across a wide array of industry verticals for the purposes of espionage and intellectual
property theft. The APT groups examined include the original WINNTI GROUP, PASSCV,
BRONZE UNION, CASPER (LEAD), and a newly identified group BlackBerry researchers
are tracking as WLNXSPLINTER. All five groups are assessed to be related given the
distinct similarities in their tools, tactics and procedures (TTPs) employed and referred
to in this report as the WINNTI approach.
• The Linux Connection: The APT groups examined in this report have traditionally
pursued different objectives and focused on a wide array of targets. However, it was
observed that there is a significant degree of coordination between these groups,
particularly where targeting of Linux platforms is concerned, and it is assessed that
any organization with a large Linux distribution should not assume they are outside
of the target sets for any of these groups.
• The XOR DDoS Botnet Connection: It was also observed that the malware used by
WINNTI GROUP very closely resembles that used in the massive Linux XOR DDoS
botnet first identified in September of 2014, to the extent that BlackBerry researchers
have judged the botnet to have been a tool developed by this group.
• Code Similarities: A PASSCV Android implant examined in this report very closely
resembles code marketed as the penetration testing tool NetWire for Android, yet the
malware is shown to have been compiled nearly two years before the commercial
NetWire tool was first made available for purchase.
• Hiding in Plain Sight: The APT groups examined in this report have shifted from
signing malware certificates stolen from video game companies to signing malware
with certificates stolen from adware vendors, resulting in very low detection rates. It
is assessed that this was being done to bypass network defenders by hiding malware
within the high volume of innocuous adware alerts large organizations typically receive
in any given day.
• Cloud Migration: It has been observed that there has been a shift in infrastructure
hosting towards the more frequent adoption of established, legitimate cloud services,
presenting a challenge to defenders’ assumptions regarding the monitoring of trusted
network traffic within their organizations’ networks.
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 6