Conducting offensive cyber operations through covert organizations provides Tehran plausible deniability for any attacks, thereby protecting its claim to victimhood while also allowing the state to signal its intentions to its opponents.
Nevertheless, a comprehensive study of Iran-linked
cyber operations often reveals Tehran’s hand in
such proxies. When the U.S. Justice Department
unsealed its Operation Ababil indictment in March
2016, it named two Iranian corporate entities that employed at least seven individuals
who had been contracted by the Iranian government. [57] The indictment implicated three
of the participants as being part of the Sun Army, an Iranian cutout defacement group.
The Sun Army followed the typical pattern found with the Iranian Cyber Army and
other state-aligned defacements, arising out of nowhere to perform targeted political acts
over a short life span. Its first documented defacements, in February 2010, were of sites
connected to now-detained opposition leader Mehdi Karroubi. The vandalism accused
him of being a traitor and was timed to blunt planned antigovernment street protests. [58]
As Iran’s cybersecurity landscape has professionalized, some defacement groups have
sought to convert their infamy into corporate success. Based on the disclosure of personal
information about threat actors, there are indications that those engaged in Iranian offensive cyber operations work within corporate entities (such as IT consultancies) or contractors of Iranian security forces. [59] For example, aspects of the Madi espionage campaign
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    23
implicated the Mortal Kombat Underground Security Team, a small Iranian group that
has attempted to sell spyware and other hacking tools since at least 2008. [60] The frequent
overlap of legitimate digital commerce sites and servers used for intrusion campaigns
is demonstrative of these blurred lines—a company might simultaneously provide web
design services for businesses and hack for the government. [61]
The transition of amateur hackers into contractors for state security agencies is reflected
in basic qualities and patterns of life found across most threat actors. There are clear indications that the threat actors documented are solely Iranians operating inside Iran, not
diaspora Iranians or non-Iranians. At the most basic level, they tend to follow the normal
patterns of life of office workers, being active during
the Iranian workweek (Saturday through Wednesday)