OPPOSITION GROUPS, TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS, AND ETHNIC SEPARATIST MOVEMENTS
Despite its labeling of civil dissent as a threat to national security, Iran does face real
threats of terrorism and organized crime from nonstate actors, evidenced by the self-proclaimed Islamic State’s June 2017 attacks on its parliament and the mausoleum of former
Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. While documentation of Iranian
cyber operations by international researchers has typically assumed that all domestic
targets of intrusion campaigns are political dissidents, a small portion of these campaigns
focus on areas in which law enforcement hacking has become internationally normalized,
chiefly in the collection of evidence and intelligence on violent terrorist activities and
financial crime.
For instance, Iranian threat actors have actively sought to compromise the digital operations of Sunni jihadi movements through credential theft, malware, and other intrusions. [128] To compromise Islamist organizations, Iranian actors have leveraged bait documents and messages in Persian and Arabic and posed as media organizations such as Al
Jazeera and Al Arabiya. Flying Kitten attempted to spread malware by posting comments
on Al Arabiya’s Facebook page purporting to promote jihadism. These intelligence efforts
have targeted jihadi groups across the Middle East and North Africa, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, including the Islamic State and al-Qaeda, while focusing on Iraqi and Persianlanguage groups. [129]
Security-related cyber operations extend as well to fringe political organizations that have
previously engaged in hostilities against the Islamic Republic. [130] Iranian threat actors
have successfully compromised individuals affiliated with front groups for Mojahedin-e
Khalq (MeK) opposition group, including the Iranian American Society of Texas and
the Simay Azadi television station. These intrusions provided access to private Facebook
discussion groups and intra-organizational planning for MeK rallies, Telegram channels,
46     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
and MeK television programming. Given the MeK’s past disclosures on Iran’s nuclear
program, which the organization has claimed were conducted through an in-country
network of collaborators, these activities also constitute a counterespionage program.
Iranian threat actors also maintain a significant focus on disenfranchised ethnic minorities advocating for greater autonomy. One recurrent target has been Baluchi groups, a
Sunni Muslim population located in both Iran and Pakistan. The news outlets and social
media accounts of Baluchi militant organizations, such as Jundallah, have repeatedly
been targeted by Tehran. These operations include breaching multiple Jundallah affiliated sites as early as July 2010 to push malware to their visitors, a “watering hole attack”
designed to surveil violent separatists that would be of interest to Iranian security agencies. [131] In other cases, from a different threat actor, Jundallah was targeted using malware
hosted on domains purporting to be related to the Free Syrian Army and sent in emails
claiming to provide documentation of attacks against the IRGC.
Tehran has also devoted considerable resources to cy## ber operations targeting Kurdish organizations inside The internet has increased
Iran and abroad. Malware samples from April 2015