Conclusions
https://securelist.com/fin7-5-the-infamous-cybercrime-rig-fin7-continues-its-activities/90703/ 7/10
5/9/2019 FIN7.5: the infamous cybercrime rig “FIN7” continues its activities | Securelist
During 2018, Europol and DoJ announced the arrest of the leader of the FIN7 and
Carbanak/CobaltGoblin cybercrime groups. It was believed that the arrest of the group
leader will have an impact on the group’s operations. However, recent data seems to
indicate that the attacks have continued without significant drawbacks. One may say
CobaltGoblin and FIN7 have even extended the number of groups operating under their
umbrella. We observe, with various level of confidence, that there are several
interconnected groups using very similar toolkits and the same infrastructure to conduct
their cyberattacks.
The first of them is the well-known FIN7, which specializes in attacking various
companies to get access to financial data or PoS infrastructure. They rely on a Griffon
JS backdoor and Cobalt/Meterpreter, and in recent attacks, Powershell Empire. The
second one is CobaltGoblin/Carbanak/EmpireMonkey, which uses the same toolkit,
techniques and similar infrastructure but targets only financial institutions and associated
software/services providers.
We link the AveMaria botnet to these two groups with medium confidence: AveMaria’s
targets are mostly suppliers for big companies, and the way AveMaria manages its
infrastructure is very similar to FIN7. The last piece is the newly discovered CopyPaste
group, who targeted financial entities and companies in one African country, which lead
us to think that CopyPaste was associated with cybermercenaries or a training center.
The links between CopyPaste and FIN7 are still very weak. It is possible that the
operators of this cluster of activity were influenced by open-source publications and do
not have any ties with FIN7.
All of the aforementioned groups greatly benefit from unpatched systems in corporate
environments. They thus continue to use effective spearphishing campaigns in
conjunction with well-known MS Office exploits generated by the framework. So far, the
groups have not used any zero-days.
FIN7/Cobalt phishing documents may seem basic, but when combined with their
extensive social engineering and focused targeting, they are quite successful. As with
their previous fake company “Combi Security”, we are confident that they continue to
create new personas for use in either targeting or recruiting under a “new” brand, “IPC”.
More information about these and related attacks is available to customers of Kaspersky
Intelligence Reports. Contact: intelreports@kaspersky.com