Anonymous
Anonymous is a collective of hacktivists and script kiddies which originated in 2003 on
the website 4chan. In the traditional sense, Anonymous is more of a cyber-mob than an
advanced persistent threat; however, the group’s construction and global membership afford
it significant influence and resilience to law enforcement efforts. Anonymous has established
a brand name with the physical weight of a cohesive advanced persistent threat group.
Anonymous has a decentralized command structure and it unties its members through
anarchic ideology. Essentially, the loosely affiliated members or member groups work
towards goals that they agree upon or remain inactive or split off, if they do not agree.
Dissent is common within the group and one of the largest difficulties in profiling Anonymous
is that the only absolutely unifying characteristic is membership in the group. Some members
participate to deface websites and prank organizations while other members participate
because Anonymous affords them a serious political activism platform. Most of the members
support the foundational anti- censorship and anti-control platform and they target entities
accused of censoring the people. Members, Anons, range from non-technical supporters to
active blackhat hackers. Essentially, if an individual believes in the Anonymous cause or
simply says that they are a member, then they are part of the collective. Anonymous
members are told to neither reveal their identity or to discuss the group. The sense of
membership and ease of access has allowed a few skilled hackers in Anonymous to hide
amongst massive crowds of protesters.
Anonymous began by attacking the Church of Scientology, but its scope rapidly
expanded. Since then, Anonymous has protested mass surveillance, anti-digital privacy
efforts, governments, financial institutions, and individual users. More specifically,
Anonymous has targeted the MPAA, the RIAA, Sony, the Church of Scientology, the
Westburo Baptist Church, government entities in the United States, Canada, Israel, Tunisia,
and Uganda, PayPal, MasterCard, Visa, and child smuggling and child prostitution rings.
Anonymous supported the Occupy movement against large businesses, and it supported the
Arab Springs movement against oppressive regimes in the Arab region. The media is the only
sector that Anonymous members are prohibited from targeting.
Anonymous defaces websites and organizes distributed denial of service attacks
(DDoS). Hacked websites may feature the pivotal picture of the Guy Fawkes mask, it may
feature a manifesto claiming responsibility for the attack, or it may simply display an internet
meme. DDoS attacks are conducted with Gigaloader, JMeter, or the Low Orbit Ion Cannon
48
(LOIC) applications. These tools flood a server with inbound TCP or UDP packets. Botnets
belonging to members of the group are often added to DDoS campaigns. In some attacks,
these botnets account for up to 90% of the malicious traffic.