First Contact Scattered Canary Comes Calling
We first identified Scattered Canary when, in a rather bold move,
the group impersonated a senior executive at Agari in an email
targeting our Chief Financial Officer.
This isn’t the first time our CFO has been targeted by a nefarious executive impersonator. The
criminal gang London Blue appeared on our radar in exactly the same way. So why have two
unrelated cybergangs made what seems like a high-risk decision to attack a firm focused on
stopping advanced email threats?
The answer is multifaceted. In many cases, they have not deemed it necessary to their tactics,
techniques, and procedures (TTPs) to be aware of the industries of their targets. In order to
carry out the high volume of attacks that these larger gangs perpetrate, they strip the process
back to its most basic components, as any smart business would. The “essentials” comprise of
the name and email address of a CFO (or comparable financial executive) and the name and
email address of the CEO for the same organization. Once they have secured this information,
their reconnaissance need not go any further, as these details are fed into their existing
infrastructure, and any replies will be subject to non-industry specific social engineering.
Another reason cybercriminals are lax about their targets is likely due to their geographic
location. Many feel that they have a home team advantage living in Nigeria, where they are
free to pay off law enforcement to look the other way. Despite the introduction of the Nigerian
Cybercrime Act 2015, which carries a fine of up to 10 million naira for unlawfully accessing
a computer system or perpetuating fraud by using electronic messages, cybercrime in the
country has continued to expand. Criminals can often secure millions in profit through BEC and
other tactics, and are both willing and able to give local law enforcement enough to keep them
quiet. By doing so, they ensure that their operations can continue while they are protected
from persecution.