Analysis
Why do adversaries use Ingress
Tool Transfer?
Upon gaining access to a system, adversaries need to perform post-exploitation
actions to achieve their objectives. While victim operating systems offer an
abundance of built-in functionality, adversaries frequently rely on their own
tools to continue compromising an endpoint and network after initial entry.
Ingress Tool Transfer is a technique adversaries leverage to bring their own tools
into a compromised network.
How do adversaries use Ingress
Tool Transfer?
There are many native system binaries that enable adversaries to make external
network connections and download executables and scripts; many native
processes allow for these files to get executed in memory without the file being
written to disk. No matter the method used, an adversary must be able to
download files to successfully perform Ingress Tool Transfer.
We commonly observe Ingress Tool Transfer in tandem with other techniques.
This is due in part to how ATT&CK is structured—Ingress Tool Transfer falls under
the Command and Control (C2) tactic, but in order for it to be performed, it
typically requires some type of Execution (a different tactic) to occur as well.
Historically, adversaries have relied on vulnerabilities found in processes that
would allow them to perform remote code execution. However, in 2020, we
observed adversaries performing Ingress Tool Transfer with system binaries
(often referred to as living-off-the-land binaries, or LOLBINs)— commonly
l [T1105: Ingress Tool Transfer]
65
2021 Threat Detection Report
BITSadmin, Certutil, Curl, Wget, Regsvr32, and Mshta. The most common
execution technique we observed adversaries using in tandem with Ingress Tool
Transfer was our most prevalent technique in general: PowerShell. For example,
Smominru malware (also known as “MyKings”) uses the PowerShell command
~~iex(New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString~~ to download additional files,
as seen below:
We observed this same Ingress Tool Transfer + PowerShell combination in many
other threats in 2020, including our ninth most prevalent threat, TrickBot.
Emerging Ingress Tool
Transfer tradecraft
Adversaries are constantly coming up with novel ways to perform Ingress Tool
Transfer that are harder for defenders to identify and detect. We are seeing
adversaries leveraging macros and VBA code to make system calls directly (such
as the ~~HttpOpenRequestA~~ function) to download their tools . The Lazarus
Group also uses methods within the libcurl library instead of calling ~~curl~~ to
perform Ingress Tool Transfer . Behaviors such as these disguise Ingress Tool
Transfer within the process, making it more challenging to identify as malicious.
In a similar vein, adversaries have started weaponizing RTF files to inject
shellcode into Microsoft’s Equation Editor to download their tools, leveraging
lesser known LOLBINs that have the ability to download from the internet ( such
as the bug in Windows Defender discovered and fixed late last year).
On the network side, many monitoring and prevention tools can identify and
block executable and script files from being transferred into the network. In an
effort to evade these defenses, adversaries have combined Ingress Tool Transfer
with Masquerading, hiding their tool within JPEG files that many network
monitoring tools allow to pass through into the network.
l [T1105: Ingress Tool Transfer]
“Adversaries may transfer tools or other
files from an external system into a
compromised environment. Files may
be copied from an external adversary
controlled system through the
command and control channel to bring
tools into the victim network or through
alternate protocols with another tool
such as FTP. Files can also be copied
over on Mac and Linux with native tools
like scp, rsync, and sftp.”
66
2021 Threat Detection Report