The WINNTI Approach
The researchers’ considered opinion here is that WINNTI has come to represent more of
an approach rather than a moniker for any single crew. It refers to a method of attacks
wherein cells of civilian contractors are assembled, attack tools and intelligence are
shared, and the targets are assigned.
The tools and infrastructure favored by each cell, or APT group, differs - but sharing
between the groups regularly occurs. This suggests that either the APT contractor
community in China regards sharing favorably and tolerates it openly, or that members
travel between cells over time or groups of them break off from individual cells to form
new ones, or both. It is also possible that the Chinese government, which is assessed
to be their likely customer, provides something in the way of support by providing tools
and intelligence in some formal fashion, but this is the least likely scenario.
The use of stolen code-signing certificates - typically from video game companies, but as
we have discussed in this report, now too from adware companies - is another common
bond. Kaspersky researchers did well to point out the common criminal ancestry of
the original WINNTI GROUP. This criminal legacy to operations has continued to color
those of the original group’s descendants all these years later, particularly in their wide
and voluminous targeting. It looks like “spray and pray,” but it’s more likely done with
more strategic intent.
The majority of the groups discussed in this report - PASSCV, WINNTI GROUP, CASPER
(LEAD), and BRONZE UNION - have been discussed in other public security research.
Whether these groups were actively collaborating, casually sharing, comprised of
some of the same members, or in actuality were smaller parts of some larger group is
beyond analysis at this point. Occasionally, though, cracks appear that provide some
greater insights.
The longevity of the WINNTI approach and its non-government attacker-culture ancestry
has meant that mistakes in these groups’ operational security have frequently come
to light. Researchers at TrendMicro, BlueCoat (now Symantec, whom we credit with
finding and naming of PASSCV), Dell SecureWorks, ESET, and Kaspersky have all spilled
ink about chasing the odd bits of personal information that have fallen through those
cracks. Let’s look at one of the more interesting ones:
In 2013, Kaspersky researchers identified one of the original suspected WINNTI
GROUP members by his screenname “Mer4en7y” as the result of an apparent lapse in
operational security (Kaspersky Lab Global Research and Analysis Team, 2013).
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 36
In tracing the attacker’s online footprint circa 2012, they found that they were a member
of a hacking forum, had submitted a vulnerability in a commercial bank system,
maintained a microblogging page, and was part of an information security forum called
“90 Security Team.” As Kaspersky pointed out, they were based in Nanjing and once
posted a reply to an ad looking for “powerful pentesters” in another city, writing “aren’t
you recruiting people for APT? Guangzhou is too far, but anyway I support it.”
As fate would have it, Mer4en7y’s moniker appeared again in print in another writeup
on WINNTI malware. This time, though, it was a U.S. Department of Justice indictment.
Prosecutors charged Mer4en7y for hacking Capstone Turbine in what they said was an
MSS conspiracy to engage in computer network exploitation operations in furtherance
of corporate espionage (United States of America v. Zhang et al, 2017).
Researchers don’t typically have the resources of a government, nor the inclination to
assess whether the Mer4en7y connection is what it seems, but it’s worth pointing out if
only to highlight what prosecutors alleged was the way in which the attackers organized.
They said an intelligence official from the provincial branch of the Ministry of State
Security (MSS) had recruited a bunch of civilian hackers like Mer4en7y – mercenaries,
if you will – to carry out the mission.
If you believe what the authors behind a number of “Intrusion Truth” (https://
intrusiontruth.wordpress.com/) posts have written about APT groups acting in the
interests of the Chinese government, this all fits a very distinct pattern, one where
missions and directives change over time yet have a common theme with a regional
intelligence officer directing a local network of contractors to achieve a longer-term
strategic goal with significant flexibility in who is employed and how the objectives are
carried out.
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 37