Android Joker malware growing in volume
Android users find themselves in the middle of an arms race between Google (which owns the Android
platform and its primary Google Play Store) and malware creators who want their malware listed for
download on the Google Play Store. Google has spent years on a system designed to inspect source code
of Android apps submitted for inclusion in the Google Play Store, in search of chunks of code that indicate a
malicious intent or an undesirable outcome for an Android user. Malware app developers have had to work
hard to evade the Google Play Store code checks.
Joker, aka Bread, is a premium SMS and billing fraud app, one of the more successful examples of a
malware family that has evolved to evade these code checks. Google has removed thousands of these
Joker-modified malicious apps from the Google Play Store since last year, when researchers first
discovered it. Despite the amount of effort put in to getting rid of the malware, Joker keeps bouncing back.
Joker appears in the guise of a wide range of different apps: utilities and tools, wallpapers, translators,
messaging services – just many clones of popular apps. Remember, Joker may actually be embedded in an
app that looks and works exactly like the real version of almost any app you use. The Joker apps just have
a little extra malware code buried deep, in one of the third-party libraries app makers routinely compile into
their apps for a variety of legitimate reasons.
There are a few reasons why Joker manages a successful evasion of Google Play Store security code
checks time and time again:

The malicious apps use obfuscation, from simple string substitution to complex commercial packers, to

slow analysis and fool the Google Play Store.

When the Joker “developer” launches the app, it contains absolutely no malicious code. This establishes

a history where the app that comes into Google Play Store is clean. Only later does the malicious code
appear in the app, following an update.

The app either decrypts its payload at runtime or downloads it dynamically, later.

Joker malware uses native code (JNI) instead of the more common DEX. Native code uses C for
programming, which slows down the analysis of malicious code. By comparison, DEX, being a variation
on Java code, is much easier to decompile into something human-readable. The malware uses this JNI
code for sending SMS messages, to make money and as one way of contacting its command-and-control
network. The use of JNI and out-of-band signalling over the phone network instead of the internet may help
Joker evade automated dex scanners that don’t speak JNI.
Joker clearly has developed an edge in the battle against Google’s automated code review on new apps,
and we see no sign that Joker will slow down in 2021 and may be joined by competitors before long.
November 2020 28
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT