2. MISCREANT'S DROPPER
The dropper operates straight forward; it fetches the encrypted DLL from its own binary from
outside its resource section, decrypts it and hides it in the file system. Then it goes on to load the
DLL using Windows regsvr32.exe. To achieve this it spawns a dedicated process with the command
line '"regsvr32.exe" /s /n /i "%APPDATA%\%DLLNAME%"'.
The DLL name is random but legitimately looking and hardcoded for a specific dropper. It is also
stored as encrypted string in the binary, and has been seen to decrypt to either 'perf585.dll' or
'dump21cb.dll' depending on the dropper.
The encryption algorithm used is AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) with 128-bit keys. The keys
used for decryption are '20 33 AF 73 A9 AC 72 D3 BE E6 A5 73 92 BA 37 6C' for the implant
filename and 'A0 0E 3E B3 3A 1C D3 AA A0 BE 3F B3 F9 0A 96 15' for decrypting the binary. AES is
the encryption algorithm of choice throughout the dropper and its implant's operations.
Interestingly, the Babar dropper as well as the implant show a similar method of API name
obfuscation as the Bunny malware and samples from the NBOT family. Dedicated APIs are loaded
through a resolution function, which searches for library exports by comparing hashes of the
export names with a given hash. For the Babar project though the attackers used an adapted
version of SHA-1, as opposed to the simple XOR/ROL hash algorithm which was used in the Bunny
project.
After infection the dropper executes a separate command line through spawning a cmd.exe
process, which is instructed to wait for 1 second before deleting the dropper binary on disk. This
way the malware reduces forensic artefacts, staying behind after infection. Curiously though, the
regsvr32.exe process used to load the dropped implant remains running. This way Babar leaves a
visible process on the process list during execution.
As the project name 'Babar64' suggests, dropper and implant are designed to work on 32-bit and
on 64-bit Windows versions. However, process hooking and injection can only affect 32-bit
processes due to the bitness of the implant itself.
page | 5