The Threat Actor Landscape
Depending on the threat actor, the mission or strategic
goal of an attack will have completely different intentions, and threat actors have a wide range of ways to put
them into practice. For better orientation and to assess
the potential and motivation of different threat actors,
we divide them into the following groups:
Targeted attacks by advanced persistent threats
Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) constitute the top
tier of cyber threat actors. Targeted attacks by an APT
are conducted based on a mission that aims to gain a
strategic advantage in order to achieve political ends or
positively influence technology developments. In this
context, an APT is assumed to be a government or an
entity that acts on a government’s behalf. The special
feature of an APT is that the attacks associated with
it are considered “state-sponsored,” which explicitly
means that the threat actors are condoned by the state
and thus represent “legal” (or at least state-protected)
hackers. State legality, difficult traceability and relatively
risk-free implementation have led more and more states
to expand their cyber capabilities and APT attacks. [2]
2 https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/news/20180724-economic-espionage-pub.pdf
In addition to such “legal” APTs, there is another
fringe group that can be seen as pioneers of states/
governments that have not yet developed the capabilities to carry out advanced attacks such as those of an
APT themselves. At the latest since the hacking team
revelations of hacktivist Phineas Phisher, it has become
clear that this fringe group pursues clear financial and
strategic goals. [3]
Targeted attacks by cybercriminals
Cybercriminals are primarily opportunistic and use all of
their available capabilities (e.g. a published exploitation
of a Microsoft Office vulnerability) against a wide range
of targets. Whenever they receive a capability, they use
it against many opportunistic targets to profit from as
many attacks as possible. In addition to opportunistic
attacks, there are also targeted and well-organised cyber
criminal attacks that aim at stealing large amounts of
data or other assets from a defined target through a
single attack and turn this into money. For this attack,
the actors typically need to spend a significant amount
of time inside of the target network. Such organised
criminals are often just as technically skilled as many
APTs. However, the decisive difference lies in the threat
actors’ strategic objectives.
Targeted attacks by terrorists
Whereas fear is widespread among the general public
that terrorists will attack critical systems, not a single
case has been reported thus far in which terrorists have
pursued and achieved their strategic goals through
targeted cyberattacks. In fact, the Cambridge Centre for
Risk Studies knows of no non-state terrorist group that
has developed the ability to carry out advanced, targeted
cyberattacks which could cause physical damage. [4] At the
same time, the 2018 Worldwide Threat Assessment by
the US intelligence community concludes that terrorists
primarily use cyberspace for media purposes. [5]
We still assume that cyber terrorism remains a threat
and will play a greater role in the future.
Targeted attacks by hacktivists
Hacktivists typically carry out targeted attacks for
political motives as a form of protest. They congregate
globally in groups of like-minded individuals in order to
coordinate and carry out attacks. Alternatively, they may
carry out attacks on their own. The skills of hacktivists
vary greatly. The aim is to reach the chosen strategic goal
as quickly as possible and attract a lot of media attention. So far, it has been noted that these threat actors
primarily perform smash-and-grab operations in order to
publicise their success as quickly as possible.
3 https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/04/how-hacking-team-got-hacked-phineas-phisher/
4 https://www.jbs.cam.ac.uk/fileadmin/user_upload/research/centres/risk/downloads/180620-slides-evan.pdf
5 https://www.wilsoncenter.org/article/world-wide-threat-assessment