FOREWORD
The impact of cybercrime is far-reaching and extends
beyond national boundaries. Coupled with increased
reliance on online activities during the COVID-19
pandemic, it poses a formidable challenge to security
worldwide. What exacerbates the situation is the ‘gap’
in law enforcement cyber capabilities within and across
regions. This gap is a key enabler for criminal
opportunities, networks and infrastructure.
In recognition of this challenge, INTERPOL is supporting
its 194 member countries in enhancing their law
enforcement capabilities and capacity to combat
cybercrime. INTERPOL offers a number of tools,
platforms and operational support, with a view to connecting police and creating a safer world. In
particular, INTERPOL’s Global Cybercrime Programme has been pivotal in leading the global law
enforcement response against cybercrime.
Partnership has been at the heart of these efforts. Collaboration with the various actors in the global
cybersecurity ecosystem is crucial. Their diverse views, expertise and datasets can help shape
effective policies and operational responses to cybercrime. Partnership also allows us to pool our
wisdom so we can be resilient and agile in times of uncertainty.
Leveraging this partnership framework, INTERPOL takes a regional approach to operational
coordination in combating cybercrime. Although cybercrime is a global challenge, every region
responds differently. By understanding how the threats are evolving and what kind of harm they are
causing in each region, we can defeat them more effectively.
With this in mind, INTERPOL has drawn up this African Cyberthreat Assessment Report for member
countries in Africa. The aim is to accurately assess the threat landscape so as to be able to provide
tailored support. The report was produced under the aegis of the African Joint Operation against
Cybercrime (AFJOC) with support from the United Kingdom’s Foreign, Commonwealth and
Development Office.
Looking ahead, the newly-created African Cybercrime Operations Desk under the AFJOC project will
drive intelligence-led, coordinated actions against cybercrime and its perpetrators in African
member countries based on this threat assessment. To effectively support the region, INTERPOL also
works closely with key regional organizations such as the African Union and Afripol to maximize
coordination and implementation efforts in order to boost regional capabilities and capacity in the
fight against cybercrime.
I trust that this report will help close the gaps within Africa and beyond, and contribute to the
effectiveness of the global law enforcement response. We thank the member countries in Africa and
our partners for their strong commitment in this endeavour.
Stephen Kavanagh
Executive Director of Police Services
INTERPOL
3
AFRICAN CYBERTHREAT ASSESSMENT REPORT