2. INTRODUCTION
The Sednit group is a resourceful APT group targeting people and organizations around the world. It has
been in operation since at least 2004, using a wide range of malware families. For a complete description
of the most prevalent tools this group uses, please refer to our Sednit white paper [5] .
Throughout our multi-year tracking of this group, we released many reports on its activities, ranging from
zero-day usage [6] to custom malware it develops, such as Zebrocy [7] . However, the component described
in this white paper is in a league of its own.
There have been stories in the past of UEFI rootkits, such as “rkloader” described in a presentation [8] from
the Hacking Team data leak or “DerStarke”, a macOS EFI/UEFI boot implant described in the Vault7 leaks [9] .
While we know of their existence, there has never been a published report detailing a real case of a victim
compromised by such malware.
Not only were we able to confirm discovering an in the wild firmware including the malicious LoJax
UEFI module, but we were also able to find the full toolchain that was presumably used to install it. It is
interesting to note here that Sednit used the DownDelph bootkit in 2013 and 2014 as a persistence method
for Downdelph, one of the group’s first-stage backdoors. While the idea is similar, bootkits are no longer
possible with the new UEFI implementation. Thus, these two components differ significantly in their behavior.
This white paper is divided into three sections. The first will deal with previous security research on LoJack/
Computrace and how it could be used maliciously. The second section will examine the breadcrumbs found
along our research route that ultimately led us to the UEFI rootkit. Finally, the third section will detail
the different LoJax components and how they persist on a system even after a Windows re-install
or a hard drive replacement.
Attribution
While many vendors have made attribution claims about the Sednit group in the past, ESET does not
perform any type of geopolitical attribution. That was our position back when we published our white paper
in 2016 [5] and is still the case today. As we wrote back then, performing attribution in a serious, scientific
manner is a hard problem that is out of our scope as ESET security researchers. What we call “the Sednit
group” is merely a set of software and the related network infrastructure, which we can hardly correlate
authoritatively with any specific organization.
Victimology
We found a limited number of different LoJax samples during our research. Based on our telemetry data
and on other Sednit tools found in the wild, we are confident that this particular module was rarely used
compared to other malware components at their disposal. The targets were mostly government entities
located in the Balkans as well as Central and Eastern Europe.