Shellcode x86: stager
In most of the analyzed samples, the dropper was configured to execute shellcode. The dropper
saved the DLL and encrypted shellcode to disk. The shellcode name was always identical to that
of the DLL, but had the extension .dll.crt. The shellcode is encrypted with the same algorithm as
the payload in the dropper. The shellcode acts as a stager providing the interface for communi
cating with C2 and for downloading modules. It can communicate with C2 via TCP and SSL. SSL
is implemented via the mbed_tls library.
Initial analysis of the shellcode revealed that, in addition to dynamically searching for API func
tions, it runs one more operation that repeats the process of PE file address relocation. The
structure of the relocation table is also identical to that found in the PE file.
Figure 15. Shellcode relocations
Since the process of shellcode address relocation repeats that of the PE file, we can assume
that initially the malware is compiled into a PE file, and then the builder turns it into shellcode.
Debugging information found inside the shellcode supports that assumption.
Figure 16. Debugging information inside the shellcode
API functions are searched for dynamically and addresses are relocated, after which the config
uration hard-coded inside the shellcode is parsed. The configuration contains information about
the C2 server address, protocol used, and connection type.
Figure 17. Example of shellcode configuration
Next the shellcode creates a connection to C2. A random packet header is created and sent to C2.
In response the malware receives a network key, saves it, and then uses it every time when com
municating with C2. Then the information about the infected computer is collected and sent to C2.
Next three threads are launched. One is a heartbeat sending an empty packet to C2 every 54
seconds. The other processes and executes commands from C2. As for the third thread, we could
not figure out its purpose, because the lines implementing its functionality were removed from the
code. All we can tell is that this thread was supposed to "wake up" every 54 seconds, just like the
first one.
9