Observed Links to Arcanum Global Intelligence
Leaked emails published by Kazaword allege that the government of Kazakhstan had 8
previously hired a private intelligence company known as Arcanum to perform a
surveillance and data extraction mission (codenamed “Raptor) targeting Mr. Ablyazov
and his family. Among the services offered by Arcanum are “Full Spectrum Cyber
Operations” which they describe using the following language:
When the need exists, we overlay Full Spectrum Cyber Operations on these core
capabilities, our principals’ experience, and special technical activities. We do this
in order to offer a potent resource to support cyber and information operations
planning and execution virtually anywhere in the world.
When our government clients come under threat, Arcanum Global’s embedded
specialists and capabilities support them with a full suite of response options,
including (in consonance with applicable laws and regulations) an array of
countermeasures as well as both in-kind and asymmetric responses.
We invite you to schedule a comprehensive and completely confidential
discussion of your cyber concerns and objectives with our specialists. After
8 The emails themselves were hosted on Megaupload and have since been taken down as a result of litigation
by the government of Kazakhstan, but they have been reported on extensively. You can find an extended
discussion of their contents here:
       -            - ​ .

http://www.viktor khrapunov.com/en/publications en/mediapart/
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION EFF.ORG 14
analyzing closely your requirements and the physical and cyber environments in
which you must operate, Arcanum Global’s holistic team of technical, operational
and management specialists will recommend specific (and potentially sensitive)
solutions – and then stand beside you to implement them and assure you realize
your goals and achieve mission success.
Emails published by Kazaword and analyzed by Mediapart allege that Arcanum
​
employed Bernard Squarcini, head of France’s domestic intelligence agency, the
Direction centrale du renseignement intérieur (DCRI) from 2007 to 2012, to inform the
Kazakh authorities of the progress of the legal proceedings against Ablyazov and to lobby
certain figures in France. Squarcini confirmed to Mediapart that the government of
Kazakhstan is a client, but Arcanum spokeswoman Yael Hartmann denied that the
company was responsible for the spearphishing attempts, insisting that the company has
complied with Swiss law.
There is certainly some strong evidence consistent with there being a link between
Operation Manul and the government of Kazakhstan and between the government of
Kazakhstan and Arcanum. However, we observe no direct links between Operation
Manul and Arcanum. The technical evidence discussed below, we believe points instead
to an Indian company: Appin.