Command and Control Data
Much of the operational traffic between command entities and subordinate units such
as unit location, status, situation reports, and deployment orders, is transmitted via
classified systems both in peacetime and wartime. Conducting CNO to penetrate
and compromise the encryption and defensive layers built into the architecture of
these systems is a resource intensive and time consuming process for Chinese IW
units or the civilian researchers likely supporting them. The Chinese doctrinal
orientation toward attacking an enemy’s information flow suggests that if a
classified network is attacked, it will likely be intended to impede encrypted
traffic flow if it moves across an unclassified backbone rather than attempting
to decrypt data or penetrate into the actual network.
~~•~~
Even if a sensitive encrypted network is not compromised, focused traffic
analysis of encrypted communications via computer network exploitation may
still yield useful information.
If PLA CNO operators are tasked with targeting the networks or databases of
specific US military units, then basic network reconnaissance conducted
during peacetime can support offensive operations during wartime.
Once these units or databases are identified, an attacker can use common
techniques or tools to affect a denial of service attack against any server or
router. The sophistication of this type of attack is within the assessed technical
capabilities of many individuals in China’s hacker community and likely of PLA
units with trained CNO operators.
Some CNE operations may be designed for purely reconnaissance purposes
to map out network topologies and understand the command and control
relationships of specific areas of US military or commercial networks rather
than exfiltrate data or emplace “sleeper” malicious software on targeted
machines.
PLA CNO commanders and operators likely recognize that a capability for peacetime
compromise is not a guarantee of wartime access. US INFOCON levels will increase
during a crisis, blocking access to some or all of an adversary’s pre-instrumented
28
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
machines. Ongoing probes and compromises designed to elicit changes in US
defensive posture may, however, provide some insights into how the network
environment will change during periods of heightened threat. Chinese operations,
therefore, could also include efforts designed to create intentional “noise” on the
network that elicits a reaction, allowing the attackers to gather intelligence on how the
US defensive posture will change under select circumstances. This is a cyber
parallel to US Cold War-era electronic warfare operations that were designed to
provoke a reaction from Soviet air defense networks to collect intelligence on their
responses to various types of threats.
29
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation