Greek oil campaign
A global oil company, with offices around the world, had been under continuous attack for some time, but in
September 2012 we noticed an upsurge in activity, with 34 times more suspicious emails than on average. This
provided a clear indication that something suspicious was going on. At the end of this wave of emails, a hotel
chain, a rental car company and two financial institutions were also targeted by the same attacker. This may
have been an attempt to find further information that could be used in a future social engineering attack against
the oil company.
In total, 136 email accounts at the oil company were targeted. A regional sales manager in Greece received
Page 14
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector
412 emails over the
12 month period,
with 155 different
attachments. A HR
person in the same
country received
the second largest
amount of emails with
90 in total. Seventeen
other people were
targeted between 70
and 90 times, many in
the same region. The
rest of the targeted
people received less
than five emails each,
in what seems to have Figure 1. Number of emails targeting the company per day
been an undirected
spraying in the hope
that at least some would fall for the bait. Clearly the one person that received the highest volume of emails was
deemed to be of high value to the attackers. Possible explanations for the attack could be that a competitor
wanted to know more about some upcoming deal or details on the oil field exploration, but this would be highly
speculative.
The spear phishing emails came from 234 spoofed addresses. They were made to appear to be linked to the
company in relation to the subject and attachment chosen. Many of the emails came from the same country as
the main targeted sales manager.
The emails all contained malicious attachments. None of them linked to third party sites for drive-by downloads.
Of the attachments, 1,588 had a .exe extension. Of those, 842 had a .pdf.exe extension. The malware chosen
was a variant of the Poison Ivy Trojan Backdoor.Darkmoon and, in some minor cases, Trojan droppers that would
download additional malware. The attackers did not use any zero-day exploits to drop a payload.
The social engineering messages concentrated mainly around the following two themes:
E-books and newspapers:


E-Book.pdf.exe


BusinessWeek.pdf.exe


Financial Times E-Paper.pdf.exe


The Economist Print Edition.pdf.exe


The NY Times In Print.pdf.exe


Free desktop tools:


Babylon9 - Greek.exe


Google Desktop Translator.exe


SMS Free Sender Desktop.exe


BBC iPlayer.exe


Sticky Notes Desktop.exe


Once installed, the back door would create a registry run key in order to restart with Windows and connect to
one of three C&C servers located in Greece. The last C&C server has been used since 2010 in similar attacks
against other companies. Other sub-domains at the same free host and DNS service have been used by other
groups to spread malware in the past.


updates.zyns.com


amazoaws.dyndns-office.com


msupdate.3utilities.com


Page 15
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector
The chosen names of the C&C server domains imitates legitimate services in a bid to be overlooked by the system
administrators when checking their logs.
The back door provides full remote access to the compromised computers, allowing for extraction of any data. It is
unknown if the attackers succeeded in their goal and if valuable information has been extracted. The attacks did not
completely disappear, but the email volume decreased significantly to only a few emails per week afterwards.