Operational security
The Butterfly attackers have demonstrated excellent operational security, as we have observed in several
aspects of their attacks.
The Butterfly attackers use a number of anti-forensics techniques to prevent detection and presumably hinder
investigation into their activity when discovered. The group’s malware and other files are securely deleted using
either the GNU Shred tool, which overwrites a file’s contents as well as deleting the index from the file allocation
Page 12
Butterfly: Corporate spies out for financial gain
table, or the shred functionality written into a custom tool. Similarly, event logs are modified to remove any
evidence of the attackers’ activity. A specific tool, Hacktool.Eventlog, appears to have been developed to perform
just this function. Using both techniques, the attackers can securely remove infections from computers that are
of no interest, letting them avoid leaving any trace of activity.
Another aspect of Butterfly’s operational security is the use of throwaway registrant names for C&C domains.
There appears to be no re-use of email addresses or names when registering different domains and C&C servers.
Similarly, the Butterfly attackers use bitcoins to pay hosting providers to host their C&C servers. This method of
payment makes it difficult for investigators to track the transaction back to a particular entity.
Finally, one of the most telling aspects of the Butterfly attackers’ level of operational security is how they run
their C&C servers. Symantec performed a forensic analysis of a C&C server used by the Butterfly attackers in late
2014. These attackers typically use a multi-staged C&C infrastructure, with several servers acting as proxies and
redirecting connections back to a final server. Symantec believes that the analyzed server was this final server,
however, it was not possible to confirm this.
The analyzed server was running Debian Linux and was very clean, with little traces of activity. Logging had been
disabled and any log files that had been created before logging was disabled were securely deleted. A single file
was present in the /root/ directory. This file, called “hd-porn-corrupted_tofix.rar”, was 400GB in size. Despite
the .rar extension, it was not a .rar file. However, there were some indications on the server as to what this file
actually was.
Truecrypt was installed on the server, as was Virtual Box. Truecrypt is an encryption tool that can be used to
create an encrypted file system in a single file. Virtual Box is software that can be used to run a virtual machine.
It is likely that the 400GB “.rar” file was an encrypted Truecrypt file which contains a Virtual Box virtual machine.
The Butterfly attackers would decrypt and run the virtual machine, redirecting SSH traffic from the physical
hosting server to the virtual machine. This would give the attackers the ability to control compromised systems
from within the virtual machine. This type of design is effective at hindering analysis without a live memory
image of the C&C server.
There were other hints of activity on the C&C server as well. There was evidence to suggest that the attackers
used the SQLMap tool. This tool looks for SQL weaknesses in web applications, and indeed, as previously
mentioned, at least one victim was compromised through a JBoss server, possibly through an SQL injection
attack. Also, the local time zone of the C&C server was changed to New York, UTC-5.
However, apart from the SQLMap activity and the modified time zone, there was no other evidence on the C&C
server. The Butterfly attackers maintained a very clean house.
Page 13
Butterfly: Corporate spies out for financial gain