Template injection refers to a technique in which threat actors embed a script moniker in the lure document—usually a Microsoft Office document—that contains a link to a malicious Office template via an XML setting. Upon opening the document, the remote template is dropped and executed. Kimsuky and Gamaredon are examples of APTs using template injection. Kimsuky
Kimsuky (also known as Velvet Chollima) is a NorthKorean threat actor group that has been active since
2013 and is known to be behind the KHNP (Korea Hydro
& Nuclear Power) cyber terrorism attacks of 2014 [1] . The
group mainly targets Korean think tanks, DPRK/nuclearrelated targets, and several US firms with the main
goal of delivering malicious payloads to its targets and
stealing web application accounts.
Starting in early March 2020, Kimsuky began using
spear phishing emails with COVID-19 in the subject
line as its initial infection vector. The emails contain
malicious documents weaponized with CVE-2017-0199 [2] .
This vulnerability allows remote code execution by
exploiting a flaw in the Microsoft Office OLE interface to
deliver malware.
Figure 2: Malcious document after enabling content
Upon opening the document, a prompt asks victims
to “enable content” to show information about the
coronavirus. After enabaling the content, a script moniker “in
word/_rels/setting[.]xml[.]rels” is triggered and drops a
Microsoft document template called web.dotm from the
following url:
http://crphone[.]mireene[.]com/plugin/editor/
Templetes/normal.php?name=web
Figure 3: setting.xml.rels content
Figure 1: Malicious document used as a lure
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 4
The “web.dotm” has an embedded macro which is designed to target Mac users (Figure 4). This macro also runs
on Windows OS, however, it only executes its main malicious functionality on a Mac. There is an “If statement” that
checks the operating system and executes a remote Python script called “Secured.APP”.
Figure 4: Malicious macro embedded in web.dotm
Figure 5 shows the content of “Secured.APP”, which executes the second stage Python script. Based on the
directory information provided in this script, it seems it is targeting users with Microsoft Office version 2016
or earlier.
Figure 5: Secured.APP
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 5
The second payload, as depicted in Figure 7, is spyware
that collects information by running several commands
and sending the collected data to its C&C server. The
main function is “SpyLoop”, which collects and sends
device/user information in an infinite while loop.
The list of collected information, stored in separate files
(Figure 6), is as follows:
                   - Architecture info

                   - System info

                      - Apple Pay

                      - Audio

                      - Bluetooth

                      - Camera

                      - External network info

                      - Firewall

                      - Hardware info

                      - Language and region

                   - List of running processes

                   - List of installed Applications

                   - List of files in Documents/Downloads/Desktop

directory
                   - List of volumes

                   - List of users

Figure 6: Content of collected information
The directory is then compressed with a password
(“doxujoijcs0qei09213@#$@”) and uploaded as a zip file
in an http request as shown in Figure 7.
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 6
Figure 7: Second Python script
The next function in the loop is “ExecNewCommand”, which is likely used to download additional content. It then
sleeps for five minutes and repeats the same process. At time of writing, it only responded with a “200 OK”.
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 7