~~Applications~~
Moving from legacy to Zero
Trust–ready applications
As we move from a security model centered on
the corporate network to one based on identities,
thousands of apps and services with internally facing
posture remain heavily reliant on network firewalls
and VPNs to isolate and restrict access. They were
built around legacy authentication mechanisms,
keeping them grounded within corporate networks.
These traditional architectures built for legacy apps
were designed for lateral connectivity rather than
micro segmentation. They violate the fundamental
principle of least privilege access and are more
vulnerable to lateral movement across the network
by an adversary, which in turn could expose
confidential data. For more on recent attack trends
in this area, please see the Legacy protocols and
OAuth consent phishing sections of this report.
Using modern apps and data
solutions
In a cloud-centric architecture, we treat our
applications and data differently. With more user
design models becoming available, engineers
no longer function as the only developers in
an organization. Users are taking advantage of
platforms and tools that offer no-code or low-code
development methods to create business solutions.
Organizations should invest in creating the right
guardrails for these new paradigms. Tracking
cloud resources and applying correct policies and
templates help to ensure that modern solutions
immediately use the correct controls.
Learn more:
Build 2021: Build Zero Trust-ready apps with the Microsoft
identity platform - Microsoft Tech Community (5/26/2021)
Integrated Threat Protection Microsoft Security|
Safeguard your multicloud resources Microsoft Cloud |
Security
How do you modernize applications? Successfully deploy one of the three solutions listed here:
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction A Zero Trust approach for securing hybrid work Identities Devices/Endpoints Applications Network Infrastructure Data People