Trojanized application
The campaigns mostly deploy legitimate apps that have been trojanized. In the analyzed LapizaChat and
NortirChat cases, malicious functionality responsible for downloading a payload is implemented in
the apputils subpackage inserted into the legitimate messaging apps, as can be seen in Figure 11.
Figure 11. Code comparison of legitimate StealthChat (left) and its trojanized version advertised as
LapizaChat (right)
After the initial start of the app, the malware looks for installed security software based on a hardcoded list of
dozens of security applications, and reports the results to the C&C server. The complete list of these apps, along
with their package names, is in Table 4.
Table 4. List of security apps in the order that they appear in the code
App name Package name
Bitdefender Mobile Security com.bitdefender.security
Avast Antivirus & Security com.avast.android.mobilesecurity
McAfee Security: Antivirus VPN com.wsandroid.suite
Avira Security Antivirus & VPN com.avira.android
Malwarebytes Mobile Security org.malwarebytes.antimalware
Kaspersky: VPN & Antivirus com.kms.free
ESET Mobile Security Antivirus com.eset.ems2.gp
Sophos Intercept X for Mobile com.sophos.smsec
Dr.Web Security Space com.drweb.pro
Mobile Security & Antivirus com.trendmicro.tmmspersonal
Quick Heal Total Security com.quickheal.platform.advance.blue.market
Antivirus and Mobile Security com.quickheal.platform
Security Antivirus Max Cleaner com.maxdevlab.cleaner.security
AVG AntiVirus & Security com.antivirus
APUS Security:Antivirus Master com.guardian.security.pri
Norton360 Mobile Virus Scanner com.symantec.mobilesecurity
360 Security com.qihoo.security
Lookout Life - Mobile Security com.lookout
dfndr security: antivirus com.psafe.msuite
phone.antivirus.virus.cleaner.junk.clean.speed.
Virus Cleaner, Antivirus Clean
```
                        booster.master
```
Antivirus & Virus Cleaner Lock com.antivirus.mobilesecurity.viruscleaner.applock
－
GO Security AntiVirus, AppLock, Booster com.jb.security
Zimperium MTD com.zimperium.zips
Intune Company Portal com.microsoft.windowsintune.companyportal
Active Shield Enterprise com.better.active.shield.enterprise
Harmony Mobile Protect com.lacoon.security.fox
Lookout for Work com.lookout.enterprise
Trellix Mobile Security com.mcafee.mvision
Microsoft Defender: Antivirus com.microsoft.scmx
Sophos Mobile Control com.sophos.mobilecontrol.client.android
Jamf Trust com.wandera.android
SEP Mobile com.skycure.skycure
Pradeo Security net.pradeo.service
If security software on the list is installed on the device, the malware will send this information to the C&C server.
If the server returns the value 0, then the first-stage payload will not be downloaded. If the server returns the
value 1, then AridSpy proceeds and downloads the first-stage payload. In all cases that we observed, when a
security app was installed on the device, the server returned the value 0 and payloads were not downloaded.
AridSpy uses trivial string obfuscation, where each string is declared by converting a character array into a string.
This method was used in every sample and even in the first published analysis by Zimperium. That same
obfuscation is also applied in the first- and second-stage payloads. Figure 12 shows an example.
Figure 12. String obfuscation
If security software is not installed, AridSpy downloads the AES-encrypted first-stage payload from its C&C
server. This payload is then decrypted using a hardcoded key, and the potential victim is asked to install it
manually. The first-stage payload impersonates an update of Google Play services, as displayed in Figure 13.
Figure 13. Request to potential victim to install first-stage payload: left to right; LapizaChat, ReblyChat,
and Palestinian Civil Registry