Attribution hell
In their blog the Cisco Talos researchers also pointed out that OlympicDestroyer used similar
techniques to Badrabbit and NotPetya to reset the event log and delete backups. Although the
intention and purpose of both implementations of the techniques are similar, there are many
differences in the code semantics. It’s definitely not copy-pasted code and because the command
lines were publicly discussed on security blogs, these simple techniques became available to anyone
who wants to use them.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Fig.8 Event logs cleaning and disabling system recovery in OlympicDestroyer and NotPetya
Soon after the Talos publication, Israeli company IntezerLabs tweeted that they had found links to
Chinese APT groups.
Fig.9 Announcement of connection to Chinese APTs by IntezerLabs on 12 Feb, 2018
IntezerLabs released a blogpost with an analysis of features found using their in-house malware
similarity technology.
A few days later media outlets started publishing articles suggesting potential motives and activities
by Russian APT groups: “Crowdstrike Intelligence said that in November and December of 2017 it had
observed a credential harvesting operation operating in the international sporting sector. At the time
it attributed this operation to Russian hacking group Fancy Bear”…”.
On the other hand, Crowdstrike’s own VP of Intelligence, Adam Meyers, in an interview with the media
said: “There is no evidence connecting Fancy Bear to the Olympic attack”.
However, a couple of weeks later, the Russian trace was brought up again by the Washington Post,
which claimed that Russian military spies were behind the Winter Olympics attack, citing “two U.S.
officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity”. Unfortunately, such articles based on anonymous
sources contain no verifiable information and bring no real answers – they only spread rumors.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Microsoft’s security team also seems to have been tricked by the malware as their internal detection
was triggered on the potential use of EternalRomance exploit (MS17-010).
Fig.10 Microsoft security team claims they found EternalRomance in OlympicDestroyer
A couple of days later Microsoft had to retract those claims as they were simply not confirmed.
Fig.11 Microsoft security team retracts previous claims in a subsequent tweet
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
The day after we released a private report with forensic findings and detailed analysis of this
attribution hell to our APT Intel subscribers (for more information please contact:
intelreports@kaspersky.com), the Cisco Talos team decided to revisit OlympicDestroyer and go
public with a similar review. We сan’t help but agree with this nice write-up with code comparison,
because we came to very similar conclusions.
In addition, Talos researchers noted that the evtchk.txt filename, which the malware used as a
potential false-flag during its operation, was very similar to the filenames (evtdiag.exe, evtsys.exe and
evtchk.bat) used by BlueNoroff/Lazarus in the Bangladesh SWIFT cyberheist in 2016.
Recorded Future decided to not attribute this attack to any actor; however, they claimed that they
found similarities to BlueNoroff/Lazarus LimaCharlie malware loaders that are widely believed to be
North Korean actors.
We can’t dispute that part of the code really does resemble the Lazarus code. The wiper modules
used in OlympicDestroyer (MD5: 3c0d740347b0362331c882c2dee96dbf) and Bluenoroff (MD5:
5d0ffbc8389f27b0649696f0ef5b3cfe) used similar code to wipe files.
Fig.12 Comparison of wiping module (left: Bluenoroff tool; right: OlympicDestroyer)
There is also a high level of similarity between Lazarus and OlympicDestroyer. There are modules in
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
both campaigns that used the same technique to decrypt a payload in memory using a secret
password provided via a command line. Lazarus used this in their malware loaders (Recorded Future
also mentions a similarity in malware loader code) to protect their backdoor modules from reverse
engineering as they contained some default C2 information.
Despite the resemblance in the method, there are significant differences in its usage:

Lazarus used long and reliable alphanumeric passwords (30+ characters long). OlympicDestroyer

on the contrary used a very simple password: “123”.

Lazarus never hardcoded its passwords for protected payloads into the malware body.

OlympicDestroyer on the contrary hardcoded it (there was actually no other way, because the
worm had to spread itself and run fully autonomously). That’s why the whole idea of using
password-protected payloads in the network worm looks ridiculous, and we believe it’s unlikely an
actor such as Lazarus would implement techniques like that considering their previous TTPs.
The possibility of North Korean involvement looked way off mark, especially since Kim Jong-un’s own
sister attended the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang. According to our forensic findings, the attack
was started immediately before the official opening ceremony on 9 February, 2018.
What we discovered next brought a big shock. Using our own in-house malware similarity system we
have discovered a unique pattern that linked Olympic Destroyer to Lazarus. A combination of certain
code development environment features stored in executable files, known as Rich header, may be
used as a fingerprint identifying the malware authors and their projects in some cases. In case of
Olympic Destroyer wiper sample analyzed by Kaspersky Lab this “fingerprint” gave a 100% match with
previously known Lazarus malware components and zero overlap with any other clean or malicious
file known to date to Kaspersky Lab.
Yet the motives and other inconsistencies with Lazarus TTPs made some of our researchers
skeptically revisit that rare artefact. With another careful look into these evidence and manual
verification of each feature we discovered that the set of features doesn’t match the actual code. At
that moment it became clear that the set of features was simply forged to perfectly match the
fingerprint used by Lazarus. Considering that this is not very well explored area in malware analysis
and attribution, we decided to share some more information on how we proved in a dedicate
blogpost with some deep technical details.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
We also noticed that there exists a wiper module with original Rich header and it was uploaded to
VirusTotal from France where one of the victims (Atos) is located. The compilation timestamp was
201 8-02-09 1 0:42:1 9 which is almost 2 hours after attack in Pyeongchang ski resorts started. It’s
unclear what went wrong but it looks like the attackers rushed to modify the worm’s wiper
component, so that it immediately disabled system services and rebooted the machine instead of
waiting for 60 minutes. They seem to wanted immediate results as there were just minutes before
the official opening ceremony started.
Considering all of the above it it now looks like a very sophisticated false flag which was placed inside
the malware intentionally in order to give threat hunter impression that they found a smoking gun
evidence, knocking them of the trail to the accurate attribution.