Links to Known Chinese Intrusion Sets
The data leaks include manuals and whitepapers for various software tools. Of particular importance,
these tools include software previously attributed to Chinese APT groups.
We do not currently know whether i-Soon were developers, resellers or even simply end users of these
tools. However, the leaked documents help confirm previous reporting that multiple China-attributed
threat actor groups often use the same, likely commercialized, malware tool sets.
One document contains a footer that translates to “Anxun Information Technology Co., Ltd.” and
appears to be a product manual for a range of software tools sold by i-Soon. These tools include
remote control management systems for Windows, Mac, iOS, Android and Linux.
The Linux remote control management software shown in Figure 2 is notable because the screenshot
provided in the document to help explain the tool’s functionality shows the malware control panel is
named “Treadstone.” The 2019 U.S. grand jury indictment of three Chengdu 404 employees directly
references Treadstone.
Copyright © 2024 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved
Figure 2. Screenshot of the Treadstone Linux malware control panel from a leaked product
manual.
The indictment claims the Treadstone malware controller software “was designed to work with Winnti
malware which, at the time, was used only by a small group of hackers.” Given reporting from
October 2023 of Chengdu 404 taking i-Soon to court for a software development contract dispute, i
Soon might have developed the Treadstone panel.
Another document relating to known Chinese APT tools is a whitepaper for a Windows remote control
management system. This document covers the system and network architecture and the product’s
features. On one of the pages explaining management of the tool is a screenshot of what is likely the
administrator panel, shown in Figure 3.
Copyright © 2024 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved
Figure 3. Administrator panel from Windows remote control management system related to
known Chinese APT tool.
The screenshot shows the configured public IP address and port as
TCP[://]118.31.3[.]116:44444 . SentinelLabs reported this IP address was used as a
ShadowPad C2 server in August 2021 and attributed to the Winnti group. This second link to the
Winnti group adds further evidence that i-Soon was involved in the development of known Winnti tool
sets.