PART 3: Mapping the Shadows in the Cloud
JR03-2010 Shadows in the Cloud - PART 3: MAPPING THE SHADOWS IN THE CLOUD 13
In order for us to begin to map the Shadows in the Cloud, it was important for us to have clear starting points.
The first and easiest starting point that we identified was to look back at what was related to and still operational from the previous Tracking GhostNet report. We focused primarily on the domains described in GhostNet
and set out to see what we could learn from them in their current state. The second was to continue collecting
and analyzing information on attacks gleaned from field research and reports that were shared with us by thirdparties. Each of these starting points branched off from one another and crossed paths in various ways, revealing at least two distinct cyber espionage networks.
We previously mentioned that a large portion of the domain names mentioned in Tracking GhostNet went offline
following the initial report. As a result, several of the domain names described in it were abandoned. The domains ultimately expired and were available for re-registration. This gave us the opportunity to take over these
domains and monitor any connections that might come to them. Doing this allowed us to see connections from
victims that were still infected, and learn more about how the command and control server was configured. The
Shadowserver Foundation has utilized this technique for a long time (Higgins 2008).
The investigation was broadened further when field research by the Information Warfare Monitor crossed paths
with research being done by the Shadowserver Foundation. The field research revealed that a computer system
in the OHHDL had been compromised by at least two different types of malware associated with targeted
malware intrusions. Based on our understanding of the malware, the domains and on-going research, we assess
that this compromise also involved at least two different cyber espionage groups and potentially even a third
one. Analysis of several malware components and their associated command and control servers ultimately led
to the discovery of an accessible drop zone for documents being siphoned off compromised systems.
The attackers’ command and control infrastructure is a critical component of maintaining persistent access to
compromised computers. Through this infrastructure, the attackers issue commands to the compromised machines as well as exfiltrate data to drop zones or to the command and control servers themselves. By carefully
examining the relationships between command and control servers we were able to map out the extent of one
such network and link it with other similar malware networks.
This report focuses on only one of these networks, one that we have named the Shadow network. This is a
complex network that leveraged social networking websites, webmail providers, free hosting providers and
services from some of the largest companies on the Internet as disposable command and control locations.
The first layer of control used blogs, newsgroups, and social networking services to maintain persistent control
as these system are unlikely to be detected as malicious. As compromised computers accessed these services,
they received another command and control location, often located on free web hosting providers. The command and control servers on the free hosting services are often disabled over time – most likely due to reports
of malicious activity. When the command and control servers on free web hosting services were disabled, the
compromised systems would receive commands from the social networking layer and then beacon (i.e., attempt
a connection) to a more stable inner core of dedicated systems located in the PRC. Unlike the command and
control servers on free web hosting services, these dedicated servers hosted in the PRC have proven to be quite
stable over time.
JR03-2010 Shadows in the Cloud - PART 3: MAPPING THE SHADOWS IN THE CLOUD 14