Sidewinder Targeted Attacks can target victims using info leakage and other vulnerabilities of ad libraries to get valuable, sensitive information. Millions of users are still under the threat of Sidewinder Targeted Attacks.
validation, and to properly encrypt network
traffic. They also need to be cautious about
which privileged interfaces are exposed to the
ad providers, in case of malicious ads or
attackers hijacking the communication channels.
Meanwhile, Google itself needs to further
harden the security framework. This may prove
difficult because:
15 www.fireeye.com


Android is a complex system. Any subcomponent’s vulnerability may impact the
security of the whole system.
Fragmentation makes the situation even
more challenging.


The trade-off between usability,
performance and security always matters,
and market demand frequently dictates
that security comes last. Many Android
developers do not even understand how
to program securely (as shown in the
JBOH issue).


Many security patches are not back-ported
to old versions of Android (like the launcher
settings problem described earlier), even
though older versions are widely used.


There is always information asymmetry in
the development chain. For example, it
usually takes several months for vendors to
apply security patches after Google


releases them.
Albeit challenging, we hope that this work
can kickstart a conversation, both on
improved security and privacy protection in
third-party libraries and on a hardened
Android security framework.
FireEye: Sidewinder Targeted Attack against Android
About FireEye, Inc.
FireEye has invented a purpose-built, virtual
machine-based security platform that provides
real-time threat protection to enterprises and
governments worldwide against the next
generation of cyber attacks. These highly
sophisticated cyber attacks easily circumvent
traditional signature-based defenses, such as
next-generation firewalls, IPS, anti-virus, and
gateways. The FireEye Threat Prevention Platform
provides real-time, dynamic threat protection
without the use of signatures to protect an
organization across the primary threat vectors and
across the different stages of an attack life cycle.
The core of the FireEye platform is a virtual
execution engine, complemented by dynamic threat
intelligence, to identify and block cyber attacks in
real time. FireEye has over 1,900 customers across
more than 60 countries, including over 130 of the
Fortune 500.
FireEye, Inc. | 1440 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035 | 408.321.6300 | 877.FIREEYE (347.3393) | info@fireeye.com | www.fireeye.com
© 2014 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of FireEye,
Inc. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks or service
marks of their respective owners. WP.SW.EN-US.072014