How the Attack Works
The emerging RAT is written with the .NET software framework, and tracked as Jupyter,
Yellow Cockatoo, SolarMarker, and now being tracked as Polazert on twitter [1].
SolarMarker was first observed by eSentire in early October 2020. The eSentire Threat
Response Unit (TRU) tracks this threat as SolarMarker due to the observed tracking file
dropped for host identification. Throughout October and November 2020, SolarMarker
utilized docx2rtf.exe as a decoy to distract users as the .NET silently installed itself in the
background. Red Canary reports SolarMarker changing this decoy application throughout
the following months [4] using in September 2020 photodesigner7_x86-64.exe and
Expert_PDF.exe in November 2020, while the TRU continued to see docx2rtf.exe. The
TRU has now discovered that the SolarMarker group is using Slim PDF Reader. See
Figure 1 and Figure 2.
https://www.esentire.com/security-advisories/hackers-flood-the-web-with-100-000-malicious-pages-promising-professionals-free-business-forms-but-are-deliv… 3/11
4/21/2021 eSentire | Hackers Flood the Web with 100,000 Malicious Pages,…
Figure 1. The attack chain starts with a google search and ends in the installation of
SolarMarker and lesser-known PDF viewer.
Figure 2: Process tree outlining the installation of SolarMarker. Note the Adobe icon on
the installer file. The RAT, labeled (unknown), then goes on to install the decoy document
and make malicious PowerShell calls.
https://www.esentire.com/security-advisories/hackers-flood-the-web-with-100-000-malicious-pages-promising-professionals-free-business-forms-but-are-deliv… 4/11
4/21/2021 eSentire | Hackers Flood the Web with 100,000 Malicious Pages,…
SolarMarker captures victims via Google Search redirect. Often, clients are looking for a
free version or template of a document. In the latest incident observed by TRU, the
victim, who works in the financial industry, was redirected to a Google Sites page
controlled by the threat actor with an embedded download button. The download button,
hosted at passiondiamond[.]site, is easy to customize. The TRU team was able to generate
a document named “this is a test” for download (Figure 3). Note the search redirect
content (see Figure 4) populated on the malicious web page just below the download
buttons in Figure 3.
Figure 3: The Download button that is embedded in the Google Site
Figure 4: The search redirect content populated on the malicious web page just below the
download buttons in figure 3.
https://www.esentire.com/security-advisories/hackers-flood-the-web-with-100-000-malicious-pages-promising-professionals-free-business-forms-but-are-deliv… 5/11
4/21/2021 eSentire | Hackers Flood the Web with 100,000 Malicious Pages,…
Figure 5: Examining the source of the embedded button page reveals a link to a .tk
domain and icon sources
The decoy program, Slim PDF, serves as an important visual cue for potential victims of
SolarMarker but also helps to lower suspicion of malicious intent. The attached
screenshot (Figure 6) is from the Slim PDF website
Figure 6: Screenshot from the Slim PDF reader website