Actor profile: Laurentiu Moon Colonce
The first established persona related to the tools used by TG-3279 is Laurentiu
Moon, which is found in the program database (PDB) string of the gsi.exe
system profiling tool. The PDB stores debugging information for its program.
The PDB string is included at compilation time and provides insight into the
directory structure of the computer used to compile the executable. The
gsi.exe example shown in Figure 1 illustrates the use of the "laurentiumoon"
username on the originating host and shows that the original program was
named "getosinfo". According to the PETimeDateStamp, this example was
compiled on Sunday, October 30, 2011 at 16:42:30 UTC.
Figure 1. PDB string that includes the laurentiumoon username. (Source: Dell
SecureWorks)
The Laurentiu Moon Colonce persona has many online profiles that contain
very little information, including a Steam Community online gaming account, a
Google+ account, a list of CodeBeamer code projects, and a bulletin board
account
on a site about mobile phone jailbreaks and cracking. Additionally, the
laurentiumoon @ gmail . com email address was used to register an account on
rootkit.com, which used to be a bulletin board dedicated to discussing exploits
and rootkit development. In February 2011, Anonymous dumped the clear text
passwords of all rootkit.com users while compromising HBGary. There is also an
openrce.org user account
with the laurentiumoon username. OpenRCE is a
popular reverse code engineering website that includes information on
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
analyzing and building malicious software, as well as on reverse engineering
and cracking legitimate software.
Laurentiu Moon has also been active in the Chinese cracking and hacking
underground since at least 2009, based upon the threat actor's join dates on
the China Cracking Group online community, AntiGameProtect, and qdppc.net.
The China Cracking Group and AntiGameProtect are online communities
dedicated to cracking software digital rights management (DRM) mechanisms,
with a large focus on video games. Laurentiu Moon joined AntiGameProtect on
December 26, 2013 and has been active as recently as January 1, 2014 (see
Figure 2).
Figure 2. AntiGameProtect.com profile of laurentiumoon as of January 7, 2014.
(Source: Dell SecureWorks)
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
located in Shanghai, China. However, other evidence discussed below suggests
this information may not be accurate.
There is also a for a user named 2bcoder that
Weibo microblogging profile
references attending network security club meetings and has many Android
mobile device posts with geolocation information tagging for the Nanshan
District of Shenzhen. The Weibo account follows both the Wuhan University of
Technology and the Wuhan University Jingwei Forum.
Like Laurentiu Moon, Sincoder is also a member of the China Cracking Group.
A Twitter account notes the persona's location as Shenzhen, China. The Twitter
profile does not have many public posts but follows security industry Twitter
accounts such as FireEye and SecurityTube, many penetration testers, and
offensive-security Twitter accounts such as Nikita Tarajanov from Russia and a
self-described "Botmaster, TrueCrober, CreditCardFucker, Fraudmaster" based in
"cardaland" who posts in Russian.
Based upon the geolocation data associated with Weibo posts, the Sincoder
(2bcoder) threat actor appears to live near Kefa Road in the Nanshan District
of the Guangdong Province in Shenzhen, China as of this publication, and may
be affiliated with the Wuhan University of Technology. CTU researchers believe
the individual is pursuing a career in the information security industry. Based
upon the geolocation of older Weibo posts, Sincoder may have previously lived
in Beijing's Dongcheng District.
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
PDF generated automatically by the PDFmyURL HTML to PDF API
often "turns off" the domain names used by its RATs.
CTU researchers believe with high confidence that the individuals behind the
Sincoder and Laurentiu Moon Colonce personas develop tools used by TG

Based on the online associations of these personas, an objective of

these compromises is likely to obtain inside information to crack the DRM
protections of the stolen software and to develop cheat patches. An alternative
objective may have been to obtain the source code of the gaming applications
to develop a similar product. CTU researchers believe that TG-3279 will
continue operations for the foreseeable future. Although there are similarities
between TG-3279 and TG-2633, also known as Winnti, CTU researchers have
not established a strong link between the groups as of this publication.