Summary
Trojan horse programmes and other associated malware are often cited as vectors for conducting
sophisticated computer-based espionage. Allegations of cyber espionage (computer network
exploitation) are increasingly common, but there are few case studies in the unclassified realm that
expose the inner workings of such networks.
This study reveals the existence and operational reach of a malware-based cyber espionage network
that we call GhostNet .
Between June 2008 and March 2009 the Information Warfare Monitor conducted an extensive and
exhaustive two-phase investigation focused on allegations of Chinese cyber espionage against the
Tibetan community.
We conducted field-based investigations in India, Europe and North America. In India we worked
directly with affected Tibetan organizations, including the Private Office of the Dalai Lama, the
Tibetan Government-in-Exile, and several Tibetan NGOs. In Europe and North America we worked with
Tibetan missions in London, Brussels, and New York. The fieldwork generated extensive data that
allowed us to examine Tibetan information security practices, as well as capture real-time evidence
of malware that had penetrated Tibetan computer systems.
During the second phase of our investigation, the data was analyzed, and led to the discovery of
insecure, web-based interfaces to four control servers. These interfaces allow attacker(s) to send
instructions to, and receive data from, compromised computers. Our research team successfully
scouted these servers, revealing a wide-ranging network of compromised computers. This extensive
network consists of at least 1,295 infected computers in 103 countries.
Significantly, close to 30% of the infected computers can be considered high-value and include the
ministries of foreign affairs of Iran, Bangladesh, Latvia, Indonesia, Philippines, Brunei, Barbados
and Bhutan; embassies of India, South Korea, Indonesia, Romania, Cyprus, Malta, Thailand, Taiwan,
Portugal, Germany and Pakistan; the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) Secretariat,
SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), and the Asian Development Bank; news
organizations; and an unclassified computer located at NATO headquarters.
The GhostNet system directs infected computers to download a Trojan known as gh0st RAT that allows
attackers to gain complete, real-time control. These instances of gh0st RAT are consistently controlled
from commercial Internet access accounts located on the island of Hainan, People’s Republic of China.
Our investigation reveals that GhostNet is capable of taking full control of infected computers,
including searching and downloading specific files, and covertly operating attached devices, including
microphones and web cameras.
The vector for spreading the GhostNet infection leverages social means. Contextually relevant emails
are sent to specific targets with attached documents that are packed with exploit code and Trojan
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - SUMMARY 6
horse programmes designed to take advantage of vulnerabilities in software installed on the target’s
computer.
Once compromised, files located on infected computers may be mined for contact information,
and used to spread malware through e-mail and document attachments that appear to come from
legitimate sources, and contain legitimate documents and messages. It is therefore possible that the
large percentage of high value targets identified in our analysis of the GhostNet are coincidental,
spread by contact between individuals who previously communicated through e-mail.
Nonetheless the existence of the GhostNet network is a significant fact in and of itself. At the very
least, it demonstrates the ease by which computer-based malware can be used to build a robust, lowcost intelligence capability and infect a network of potentially high-value targets.