Escalation of watering hole attacks
As we have noted earlier, the number of watering hole attacks have been on the increase. The attacks begin with
an attacker locating a vulnerability on a chosen website. This vulnerability allows the attacker to insert some
JavaScript, or HTML, into the website. That piece of code contains a link, or iFrame, which points to another Web
page that actually hosts exploit code for the chosen vulnerability. When a user connects to the hacked website,
they are automatically referred to the malicious Web page which exploits a vulnerability allowing the attacker to
install malware onto the victim’s computer. Once the iFrame and malicious code are in place on the server, the
attacker does not need to do anything but simply wait for victims to browse to the website, or visit the watering
hole, and become infected.
Web injection attacks are not new and are commonly used in cybercrime. The difference between their use in
cybercrime and in watering hole attacks is down to the choice of websites to compromise and use in the attacks.
In a mass injection attack, criminals will indiscriminately compromise any website they can, but in watering hole
attacks, the attackers are focused. They choose websites within a particular sector so as to infect persons of
interest who likely work in that same sector and are likely to therefore visit related websites. Targeting a specific
website is much more difficult than merely locating websites that contain a vulnerability. The attacker has to
research and probe for a weakness on the chosen website.
Indeed, in watering hole attacks, the attackers may compromise a website months before they actually use
it in an attack. Once compromised, the attackers periodically connect to the website to ensure that they still
have access. This way, the attackers can infect a number of websites in one stroke, thus preserving the value of
their zero-day exploit. They are even in a position to inspect the website logs to identify any potential victims of
interest. This technique ensures that they obtain the maximum return for their valuable zero-day exploit.
Although watering hole attacks have been known about since approximately March of 2011, the activity outlined
in this report marks a substantial increase. Three zero-day exploits, CVE-2012-0779, CVE-2012-1875, and CVE2012-1889 have all been used within a 30-day period to serve up back door Trojans from compromised websites.
Figure 6
Elderwood platform
The increase in the use of this attack technique requires the attackers to sift through a much greater amount
of stolen information than a targeted attack relying on email, as the number of victims compromised by a Web
injection attack will be much greater. Although multiple emails are often sent to numerous victims, the scale of
such attacks is much smaller than the number of victims infected by visiting one of a number of compromised
websites. We believe, to solve this problem, the attackers have built a system that allows them to execute new
campaigns by simply dropping in a new exploit and various other components, such as Trojans and hacked
servers.