Animals in the APT Farm
securelist.com /animals-in-the-apt-farm/69114
By GReAT
In 2014, researchers at Kaspersky Lab discovered and reported on three zero-days that
were being used in cyberattacks in the wild.
Two of these zero-day vulnerabilities are associated with an advanced threat actor we
call Animal Farm . Over the past few years, Animal Farm has targeted a wide range of
global organizations. Victims include:
Government organizations
Military contractors
Humanitarian aid organizations
Private companies
Journalists and media organizations
Activists
Our colleagues at Cyphort, G-DATA and ESET have recently published blogs about
Bunny, Casper and Babar, some of the Trojans used by the Animal Farm group.
The Farm includes several Trojans, which we have grouped into six major families:
Here’s a brief description of the animals in the farm:
Bunny – an old “validator”-style Trojan used with a PDF zero-day attack in 2011.
1/4
Dino – a full-featured espionage platform.
Babar – the most sophisticated espionage platform from the Animal Farm group.
NBot – malware used in a botnet-style operation by the group. It has DDoS
capabilities.
Tafacalou – a validator-style Trojan used by the attackers in recent years.
Confirmed victims get upgraded to Dino or Babar.
Casper – the most recent “validator”-style implant from the Animal Farm group.
The group has been active since at least 2009 and there are signs that earlier malware
versions were developed as far back as 2007.
Over the years we have tracked multiple campaigns by the Animal Farm group. These
can be identified by a specific code found either in the malware configuration or
extracted from the C&C logs.
Most recently, the group deployed the Casper Trojan via a watering-hole attack in
                     Syria. A full description of this zero [day attack can be found in this blog post by](https://securelist.com/new-flash-player-0-day-cve-2014-0515-used-in-watering-hole-attacks/59399/)

Kaspersky Lab’s Vyacheslav Zakorzhevsky.
In addition to these, the Animal Farm attackers used at least one unknown, mysterious
malware during an operation targeting computer users in Burkina Faso.