Conclusions
CosmicStrand is a sophisticated UEFI firmware rootkit that allows its owners to achieve
very durable persistence: the whole lifetime of the computer, while at the same time being
extremely stealthy. It appears to have been used in operation for several years, and yet
many mysteries remain. How many more implants and C2 servers could still be eluding
us? What last-stage payloads are being delivered to the victims? But also, is it really
possible that CosmicStrand has reached some of its victims through package
“interdiction”? In any case, the multiple rootkits discovered so far evidence a blind spot in
our industry that needs to be addressed sooner rather than later.
The most striking aspect of this report is that this UEFI implant seems to have been used
in the wild since the end of 2016 – long before UEFI attacks started being publicly
described. This discovery begs a final question: if this is what the attackers were using
back then, what are they using today ?
The GReAT team would like to extend its special thanks to their former
colleague, Mark Lechtik, for his key involvement in this research.
[1] A hook is a modification to the normal flow of execution of a program. It aims to
execute additional code provided by the attacker before or after a given function. In some
environments, function hooking is provided for legitimate purposes and can be set up
easily through conventional programming mechanisms. In other cases, where they are
not explicitly supported, attackers can still achieve hooking by overwriting (and later on,
restoring) the code that is about to be executed. Both cases are leveraged by this rootkit.
[2] Here we skip the implementation details and shellcode tricks used by the rootkit in
order to obtain the address of the malicious code. The precise workflow of this part is left
as an exercise to the reader, and documented extensively in our private report on this
activity.
[3] More information about this function is available in research from other vendors.
CosmicStrand: the discovery of a sophisticated UEFI firmware rootkit
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
https://securelist.com/cosmicstrand-uefi-firmware-rootkit/106973/ 12/12