The who & why of cyber attacks
Document meta-data is information
‘about’ a document, or information
on its properties. It often informs
who created a document, when
and where on a device or network.
According to version information
retrieved from document meta-data,
71 percent of the 2000 companies may
be using potentially vulnerable and out
dated versions of Microsoft and Adobe
software.
Furthermore, 16 percent of corporate
web servers may be vulnerable to
attack due to missing security patches
or out-dated server software. Many
instances of un-patched and unsupported
web server software were found to be
serving Forbes 2000 corporate websites.
Figure 2: Number of potentially sensitive
4 Stuxnet is a computer worm discovered in June 2010
that is believed to have been created to attack Iran's
nuclear facilities. Stuxnet initially spreads via Microsoft
Windows, and targets Siemens industrial software and
equipment. Kaspersky Lab concluded that the sophisticated
attack could only have been conducted "with nation-state
support". Different variants of Stuxnet targeted five Iranian
organizations, with the probable target widely suspected to be
uranium enrichment infrastructure in Iran
In this era of information and
connectivity, malicious hackers are able
to easily find information assets as
targets in a corporate network.
What is at stake is financially valuable
data such as mergers-and-acquisitions
plans, transaction records, quarterly/
annual reports and internet banking
details. Strategic information including
intellectual property, contact details
of senior executives, records of legal
disputes and various trade secrets are
also at risk.
In addition, personal data like employees’
addresses and date of birth, once
compromised might very well be used in
facilitating identity theft.
Last but not least, process control
networks are being increasingly favoured
by attackers given their vast potential
in bringing about significant impact, as
proven in the famous Stuxnet case [4]
and other incidents described earlier.
Given how the numerous production
and exploration activities carried out by
energy companies are dependent on
these networks, this trend is of particular
relevance and importance to the ENR
sector.
A 2011 report by KPMG has shown that
oil and gas operations are amongst the
top 10 sectors which suffer from the
most information leakages worldwide.
Information leakages involving oil and gas
operations account for six percent of all
security incidents.
Some of the sources of leakage
are within the direct control of the
corporation and can be prevented if
companies put in the effort. These
sources include websites, documents
and web servers. However, there are also
other channels such as popular search
engines and forums which are outside of
the usual enterprise security curtain and
pose a much more complex challenge.
The KPMG report also revealed that
78 percent of Forbes 2000 corporate
websites leak some form of potentially
useful information through their
document meta-data.
Page 5
© 2013 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client
services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm.
All rights reserved.
Part of KPMG’s research focused on
the structure of the Forbes 2000
corporate websites to identify any
potentially sensitive file locations or
hidden functionality that may be useful
to cyber attackers. A number of file
locations marked ‘private’ were also
identified, hosting documents that were
not intended for public consumption
(See Figure 2 below).
The direct result is that out of all the
servers used for corporate websites,
15 percent offer hacker access to test
functionality and private login portals that
potentially allow file upload capabilities
that could likely lead to full take-over of
servers by cyber attackers.
Oil & Gas operations have also emerged
in the list of top 10 sectors that post
most information to public forums
and newsgroups. There are as
many as 88,681 of such postings in
newsgroup alone, according to the
report.
If past experience has taught us
anything, it is that cyber attackers and
organised crime do not target one
avenue of attack. Instead, they use a
combination of available information
leaks to profile a target, and map out
the target’s internal systems and their
components.
It is important to emphasise that
the processes used to gather the
information leaks mentioned above are
not sophisticated and available to anyone
with access to the Internet and little
more than a web browser.
file locations on the Forbes 2000 corporate websites by sector
© 2013 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client
services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm.
All rights reserved.
Page 6
Industrial Control System
The problem is even worse when it
comes to control systems which are
widely adopted by ENR industries,
as explained by chief cyber security
strategist from Computer Sciences
Corporation (CSC ), Donald Purdy.
Purdy, formerly a cyber official at the
Department of Homeland Security,
mentioned during a major security
conference in San Francisco in 2012:
“These are older systems so they are
harder to control. And for convenience
and cost savings, people have connected
them to the internet in order to control
them from remote locations. So this
is almost a perfect storm in terms of
vulnerability because the nation is so
dependent on these systems… This is a
significant security issue for the United
States and frankly for the world.”
In the monthly monitor report released
last September by the US Industrial
Control Systems Cyber Emergency
Response Team (ICS-CERT), it was also
mentioned that “the positive aspects of
better connectivity were overshadowed
by the introduction of significant
vulnerabilities”.
For instance, Justin W. Clarke, a
30-year-old cyber security researcher
and electric utility expert discovered
two major vulnerabilities in 2012 on
Siemens’ RuggedCom equipment which
is extensively used by companies in
communicating with power stations
situated in different locations.
The first vulnerability is essentially a secret
“back door” which would easily allow
hackers remote access into the equipment.
The second vulnerability makes it possible
for hackers to intercept the network traffic
between operator and devices which may
contain authentication credentials. Potential
attackers could take advantage of such
flaws to manipulate power stations or
use these flaws to launch another set of
attacks on a much larger scale.
The situation is made even worse when
independent researchers release and
circulate system flaws and vulnerabilities
for reference and countermeasure
studies. While the intention behind such
documents might be good, the direct
consequence is that many could now
easily gain access to dangerous and
powerful “weapons” such as the code
of Stuxnet, which can cause immense
damage to critical infrastructures.
In contrast to the published vulnerabilities,
certain manufacturers of critical system
controllers are reacting way too slowly
which have resulted in research groups like
Digital Bond, releasing exploits for these
vulnerabilities in order to “stimulate” the
patching and upgrading efficiency.
When it comes to electrical power,
technology is also a double-edged sword.
While advances in smart grid technologies
have helped better detect power theft
and reduce power loss with smart meters
been recently deployed in countries such
as in Serbia and Brazil, these technologies
also give rise to possibilities of their
advanced functionalities being used for
shady purposes.
For instance, two demonstrations
at Security B-Sides and Black Hat
conferences illustrated that hackers
could basically tweak the smart metres
currently in use to perform functionalities
as they wish, which include changing of
temperature, controlling of lighting and
even cutting of power during emergencies.
As a side note on corporate security
policies and procedures, the Saudi Aramco
incident where large number of business
computers were disabled, also highlighted
importance of monitoring network attacks
initiated by inside personnel and the
potential danger of using portable storage
media like thumb drives.
Categorised Active Players
Over the years, two major shifts in trends
have been observed in terms of cyber
attacks.
Firstly, the targets are shifting from
individual organisations to chains of
related companies. Secondly, the main
components of attackers have shifted
from script kiddies to criminal groups,
with the latter being much more
specialised and coordinated.
Some of the major players include:

organised cyber criminals who are

most known for mass stealing of
personal identities and financial data,

state or corporate sponsored

espionage like the Night Dragon
operation which aims to steal critical
intellectual and business information,

hacktivists such as Wikileaks,

Anonymous and LulzSec who have
amassed a large number of supporters
and participants,

malicious inside personnel, as in the

case of Bradley Edward Manning,
a United States Army soldier who
was arrested in May 2010 in Iraq on
suspicion of having passed classified
material to the website WikiLeaks.
Just as attacks have evolved, companies
too must evolve by re-evaluating their
own ability to detect, defend and respond
to cyber attacks.
Page 7
© 2013 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client
services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm.
All rights reserved.
Various Attack Vectors
Cyber incidents can be loosely divided
into three categories. The first category
is accidental events due to human
error, system failure or unanticipated
accidents. The second category refers to
unauthorised access into networks and
systems by hackers or employees. The
third category does not require actual
access as it usually causes denial of
service or loss of data.
Attack methods could involve
complicated and coordinated efforts
to beat the cyber security protection
mechanism and intelligence
reconnaissance, followed by social
engineering techniques for acquiring of
target information.
There are six most common types
of security failings. These are shared
accounts, weak passwords, lack of
effective network monitoring, lack of
effective Web monitoring, absence of
logging and absence of log analysis.
Lack of user awareness also provides
more opportunities for social engineering
attempts to succeed. Examples of such
attempts include luring Internet users
into execution of malware and Spear
Phishing. (See Figure 3 below).
A group of attackers who are particularly
good at social engineering is Anonymous.
These hackers typically exploit easy-toguess passwords of users or use emails
to trick users into revealing confidential
information or into clicking links which
lead to the download of malicious
software.
However, Anonymous is not the only
group of people who are familiar with
this technique. In fact, cyber criminals
and state-sponsored attackers have
been practising it for a far longer time.
The stakes are also bigger for them as
they stand to gain a whole lot more of
important information.
Eddie Schwartz, chief security officer
of the security firm RSA summed it up
best during a security conference in San
Francisco in 2012 when he said: “The
attacks by them (Anonymous) pale in
comparison to the nation-state stuff and
the criminal element… The more eyes,
the greater chance of success (for an
attack)”, which accurately depicts the
cyber environment nowadays.
Source: 2012 KPMG paper "A nuanced perspective on cybercrime".
© 2013 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client
services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm.
All rights reserved.
Page 8
Impact on companies who fall
prey to such attacks
The objectives of cyber attacks can be
divided into two distinct categories.
These are

misappropriation and theft of

intellectual property, financial data
or other confidential information for
monetary gain or to gain a competitive
edge;

corruption or disturbance of key

business assets and processes for
strategic purposes or to make an
activism statement,
However, the actual impact on victim
companies could be much broader and
more profound.
More specifically, direct consequences
of such attacks comprise disruption of
business and production processes,
unauthorised access to monetary
operation, loss of intellectual property,
disclosure of merger-and-acquisition
deals, identity theft and compromising
of customer data. Such attacks can also
adversely affect third party partners in the
industrial chain. (See Figure 4 below).
But all the above consequences are
just the tip of the iceberg. Deeper
financial and reputational impact further
includes loss of competitive advantage
in accessing new fields, failure to keep
current clients and investors, losing
deals and disputes (or winning them on
unfavourable terms), regulatory fines,
liability lawsuits, share price drops, costs
involved in fixing business relationships
and even negative international publicity.
In addition, the company would very
likely be forced to spend more than usual
to fix systems and repair damages. It
is also very likely that costly fees will
be incurred from services of third party
experts and consultants for mitigation and
recovery services. There could also be
forced expenditure on personnel change,
organisational restructuring and additional
training.
Page 9
Source: 2012 KPMG paper "A nuanced perspective on cybercrime".
© 2013 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client
services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm.
All rights reserved.