linked to intelligence services actively attacked the energy sector during H2 2019 — H1 2020
group-ib.com
page 46 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
APT20
The Chinese-backed hacker group
APT20 attacked companies in ten
countries as part of a campaign called
Operation Wocao. The group’s attacks
affected various industries, including
the energy sector.
The hackers compromised target
networks via vulnerable web servers
managed by a company or government
entity. The threat actor then propagated
across the network looking for system
administrator credentials with privileged
access to the infrastructure's most
critical parts.
APT20 installed keyloggers on computers used by administrators in order
to capture keystrokes and steal passwords. The campaign involved tools
such as web shells for file upload and
command execution, a script for scanning the system for information, the
custom XServer backdoor, CheckAdmin
to identify if administrators are logged
in, and others.
APT28
The group APT28 is believed to have
been behind a phishing attack against
the Ukrainian oil and gas group company Burisma in early November 2019.
The threat actors registered lookalike
domains that mimicked legitimate websites belonging to Burisma’s subsidiaries and partners. In particular, domains
targeting the following subsidiaries
were discovered: KUB-Gas LLC, EskoPivnich, and CUB Energy Inc.
To carry out the attack, the threat
actors sent employees emails with
links to login pages. The links looked
legitimate. In addition, the attackers
set up sender authentication records
using SPF and DKIM. After victims
followed the link and entered their cre
dentials, the attackers gained access
to them and could use them to further
the attack. Some employees entered
their credentials on the fake web
pages, which allowed the threat actors
to stealthily operate within the organization and obtain the information they
needed.
APT41
The group APT41 used a new ransomware family called ColdLock to conduct
a series of attacks against several
organizations in Taiwan. Analysis of the
malware revealed similarities between
ColdLock and the previously known
Freezing ransomware family as well
as the EDA2 “educational” ransomware
kit. For example, Freezing and ColdLock
have a similar method of propagating within networks (compromised
AD servers), similar reflective injection
methods, and a similar internal module
architecture.
ColdLock terminates the following services on the system before encrypting
their files:
group-ib.com
→ Threats to the telecommunications sector
— mariadb
— msexchangeis
— mssql
— mysql
— oracleservice
It also terminates the Outlook process and checks the Windows version
running on the system. If the system
is running Windows 10, the ransomware
carries out several Windows 10-specific
routines. Windows Defender is disabled, as is the ability to send feedback/
malware samples to Microsoft. Push
notifications are disabled as well.
According to media reports, the
campaign struck the computer systems of Taiwan’s state-owned energy
company, CPC Corp., which delivers oil
products throughout Taiwan. Although
the attack did not affect the company’s energy production, it did reportedly
prevent some customers from using
CPC Corp.’s payment cards to purchase
gas.
PoetRAT
A new remote access Trojan
named PoetRAT was discovered
in February 2020. The attacks affected
Azerbaijan’s government agencies
and industrial companies, mainly
in the energy sector. The investigation
revealed that cybercriminals are particularly interested in SCADA systems
used in the electricity sector, specifically in wind turbine systems.
RAT is written in Python and has all the
features specific to this type of malware. It gives the operators complete
control over the compromised system.
The attackers sent malicious Microsoft
Word documents, some of which were
made to look like messages from
Azerbaijani government agencies
or from the Defense Research and
Development Organization of India.
Some of the file names mentioned
COVID-19.
The threat actors monitored specific
directories, which meant that they
wanted to exfiltrate specific information about the victims. The attackers
likely wanted to get a full picture of the
victims by using keyloggers, browser
credential stealers, and Mimikatz
and pypykatz for further credential
harvesting.
OilRig
Iranian hackers were once again found
to be using wipers, but this time the
attacks are attributed to the OilRig
group (aka APT34). A new Trojan called
ZeroCleare was used in a recently
discovered targeted attack on an oil and
gas company.
The attack most likely started in the fall
of 2018 with reconnaissance scanning
from various low-cost/free VPN providers and gaining access to one of the
accounts that was later involved in the
attack. During the summer of 2019, the
attackers used a password spray from
a system on the local network to gain
access to additional accounts, install
ASPX web shells, and gain domain
administration privileges.
After the device was compromised
through a vulnerable driver, the wiper
spread to other devices in the network
for further destructive attacks. The
malware then overwrote the master
boot record (MBR) and disk partitions
on Windows-based machines using
a legitimate driver, EldoS RawDisk. While
Group-IB researchers could not determine the exact number of organizations
that were impacted, at least 1,400 hosts
were affected by ZeroCleare.
Later, a new strain of ZeroCleare
data-wiping malware called Dustman
was detected on the network belonging
to Bapco, Bahrain's national oil company. A common component of the
malware is EldoS RawDisk. Dustman
differs from other wipers by the fact
that the necessary drivers and loaders
are supplied in one executable file and
not two, as is the case with ZeroCleare.
Dustman also overwrites the volume,
while ZeroCleare erases it by overwriting it with junk data (0x55).
In this case, however, OilRig was most
likely trying to cover its tracks as the
hackers had previously made mistakes
that revealed their presence on the
network.
Orangeworm
Since January 2020, a wave of attacks
involving the Kwampirs Trojan has been
identified. The malware has been linked
to the Orangeworm group, which used
the Trojan to attack companies in the
healthcare sector, in particular software
supply chain companies.
After penetrating the system, Kwampirs
collects basic data about the device and
sends it to a remote server. Attackers
then gain access to sensitive data using
the backdoor on the infected machine.
If the compromised system is identified as potentially interesting, the data
is stolen and the malware is copied
to all available machines and network
resources.
This year, the threat actor has been
conducting supply-chain attacks
against software vendors, but the
group's ultimate interest has changed.
They now attempt to gain access
to organizations that support industrial
control systems (ICS) for the global production, transmission, and distribution
of energy.
Orangeworm is not officially associated with any country. The FBI has said,
however, that the Kwampirs source
code shows that the Trojan is similar to the infamous Shamoon wiper
developed by the Iranian hacker APT33,
though the latter does not have a wiper
component.
page 47 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Threats to the telecommunications sector
Attackers most often use the following
methods to bypass air gaps:
Many industrial networks are “air
gapped” and to some extent isolated
from other internal networks. But even
protected networks can be breached.
Attackers most often use the following
methods to bypass air gaps:
— Trusted USB devices
— Connected Raspberry Pi devices
— Supply-chain attacks
During the reporting period, new tools
for jumping the air gap emerged:
Group Trojan Modus operandi
Cycldek (China) USBCulprit USBCulprit is delivered using another Trojan (NewCore RAT), which
initially reaches users via spear phishing emails, usually politically
themed.
Once it is in the system, USBCulprit scans paths to executable
files, collects documents with certain extensions, and exports them
to USB drives connected to the system.
When a USB drive infected with USBCulprit is connected
to a computer, the Trojan will copy stolen files either to or from the
removable drive.
Tropic Trooper (China) USB worm The threat actors ferry a malware installer via USB into an air-gapped
USBferry host.
The malware checks for network connectivity. If it determines that the
network is unavailable, it tries to collect information from the target
machine and copy the collected data to USB storage.
After that, the Trojan exfiltrates information and uploads it to the
C&C server.
DarkHotel (South Korea) Ramsay 1
September 2019)
Ramsay 2.a
(early March 2020)
Ramsay 2.b
(end of March 2020)
All versions of the malware differ from each other and infect victims
in different ways. Versions 1 and 2.b exploit a vulnerability in .doc
(CVE-2017-0199), .rtf (CVE-2017-11882), and Visual Basic mechanisms
integrated into Word. Version 2.a is disguised as a 7zip installer.
The persistence mechanism is selected based on the Ramsay version
used. Some have a special Spreader component that copies Ramsay
to all PE files located on disks, including removable drives, in order
to eventually reach isolated systems.
The threat actor exfiltrates the collected data using an external
component that has not yet been detected.
Turla COMpfun The hackers have updated the classic COMpfun remote access Trojan
by adding the ability to check whether a USB drive is connected
to the infected host. Security experts believe that this mechanism
is used by Turla to infect physically isolated systems and spread the
Trojan automatically.
Transparent Tribe USBWorm component USBWorm is a component developed for stealing files from
of the Crimson Trojan removable drives and spreading malware across systems by infecting
removable media. To steal data, the malware enumerates all the files
stored on the device and copies those with an extension matching
a predefined list.
As part of the infection process, the malware lists all directories.
Then, for each directory, it creates a copy of itself in the drive root
directory using the same directory name and changing the directory
attribute to “hidden”.
This results in all the actual directories being hidden and replaced
with a copy of the malware using the same directory name. Moreover,
USBWorm uses an icon that mimics a Windows directory, tricking the
user into executing the malware when trying to access a directory.
group-ib.com
page 48 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Threats to the telecommunications sector
Analysis of these attacks reveals that threat actors usually apply the following techniques to attack the energy sector:
Attack vector Modus operandi
Reconnaissance via OPC Attackers use the OPC protocol to gather information about the equipment being
used and to identify its topology.
Access to SCADA HMI Since HMI workstations have a small attack surface, in addition to standard methods of gaining access
to computers running Windows, hackers actively investigate vulnerabilities in the HMI. Exploiting such
vulnerabilities means that malicious code can be executed.
Controller management Attack frameworks (e.g., Idustroyer) are being supplemented with modules that allow threat actors
to manage controllers using standard protocols such as IEC 60870-5-101, IEC 60870-5-104, and IEC 61850.
Control over emergency Control over emergency shutdown systems allows hackers to stop production, so attackers have
shutdown systems developed specialized modules for this purpose (e.g., the Triton framework).
Infiltration through home
routers and NAS
In order to detect industrial networks, the threat actors load modules for traffic analysis and Modbus
protocol detection (e.g., the VPNFilter framework) on network devices.
Organized crime targeting the energy sector
Crime groups conduct two main types
of attack on the energy sector:
— Active sale of access, including
to networks belonging to energy
companies
Sale of access
In 2019, cybercriminals stopped publish
full company names very often, making
it more difficult to categorize a compromised company. Based on the descriptions presented, six companies in the
energy sector were identified. Five
2019
— Ransomware attacks
Many types of ransomware have been
equipped with new capabilities to detect
processes associated with industrial
control systems. This has caused
of them are associated with the extrac
tion of energy resources.
In 2020, Group-IB did not observe
an increase in the sale of access to net
works belonging to energy companies.
This year, access to seven companies
substantial losses of critical data and
higher ransom amounts for recovering access to such data. This is especially true for data stored on Historian
servers.
was offered for sale. Two companies
are involved with energy directly and
five are associated with production. The
only company whose name has been
published is Entrust Energy.
Date Seller Industry Name Domain Region Price ($)
03/04/2019 Achilles Mining, quarrying, and None None None None
oil and gas extraction
04/28/2019 Lampeduza Mining, quarrying, and
oil and gas extraction
Stevin Rock LLC stevinrock.com United Arab 900
Emirates
08/10/2019 bc.monster Energy None None None 4,600
09/15/2019 B.Wanted Mining, quarrying, and None None USA 4,600
oil and gas extraction
09/21/2019 Gabrie1 Mining, quarrying, and None None USA 24,000
oil and gas extraction
11/11/2019 nikolaruss Mining, quarrying, and None None Turkey 3,500
oil and gas extraction
group-ib.com
page 49 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
2020
→ Threats to the telecommunications sector
Date Seller Industry Name Domain Region Price ($)
02/08/2020 ellis.J.douglas Energy Entrust Energy entrustenergy.com USA 1,600
03/16/2020 rexus Mining, quarrying, and None None China 10,000
oil and gas extraction
04/18/2020 cryzaa Mining, quarrying, and None None None 3,000
oil and gas extraction
04/27/2020 Network Mining, quarrying, and None None None None
oil and gas extraction
05/14/2020 zeoman Mining, quarrying, and None None Netherlands 2,000
oil and gas extraction
06/11/2020 fatfish Energy None None Canada 500
06/30/2020 drumrlu Mining, quarrying, and None None United Arab 2,000
oil and gas extraction Emirates
Ransomware attacks on energy companies
Over the past year, eleven attacks
against energy companies have
been detected. Five of the targeted
companies are linked to energy directly
and six are related to production. At the
same time, there is no specific type
of ransomware used in this industry: the
attacks involved eight different ransomware families.
Date Ransomware Industry Name Domain Region
11/11/2019 DoppelPaymer Mining, quarrying, and Pemex pemex.com Mexico
oil and gas extraction
01/14/2020 Maze Energy Electricaribe electricaribe.co Colombia
02/20/.2020 Clop Mining, quarrying, and
oil and gas extraction
INA Group ina.hr Croatia
04/02/2020 Nefilim Mining, quarrying, and Aban Offshore abanoffshore.com India
oil and gas extraction
04/06/2020 Maze Mining, quarrying, and Groupement Berkine Нет Algeria
oil and gas extraction
04/28/2020 Nefilim Mining, quarrying, and W&T Offshore, Inc. wtoffshore.com USA
oil and gas extraction
05/26/2020 NetWalker Energy SolarReserve solarreserve.com USA
06/09/2020 Snake Energy Enel Argentina enel.com.ar Argentina
07/03/2020 REvil Energy Light S.A. light.com.br Brazil
07/06/2020 Ragnar Energy Energias de Portugal edp.com Portugal
07/24/2020 NetWalker Mining, quarrying, and Axens axens.net France
oil and gas extraction
group-ib.com
page 50 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021