Targeting
Based on Trend Micro Telemetry, incident response engagements, and open source threat intelligence
investigations, we have learned of CopyKittens target organizations and countries. Its main targets are in
countries such as Israel, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, The United States, Jordan, and Germany. Occasionally
individuals in other countries are targeted as well as UN employees.
Targeted organizations include government institutions (such as Ministry of Foreign Affairs), academic
institutions, defense companies, municipal authorities, sub-contractors of the Ministry of Defense, and large
IT companies. Online news outlets and general websites were breached and weaponized as a vehicle for
watering hole attacks.
For example, a malicious email was sent from a breached account of an employee in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, trying to infect multiple targets in other government
organizations worldwide. In a different case, a document likely stolen from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign
affairs was used as decoy. In other cases, Israeli embassies were targeted, as well as foreign embassies in
Israel.
Based on the size of the attack infrastructure and length of the campaign, we estimate that there have been
at least a few hundred people infected in multiple organizations in the targeted countries.
After infecting a computer within a target organization, the attacker would move latterly using one of the
malware descried in chapter "Malware." It seems that their objective is to gather as much information and
data from target organizations as possible. They would indiscriminately exfiltrate large amounts of documents,
spreadsheets, file containing personal data, configuration files and databases.
In at least one case, the attackers breached an IT company, and used VPN access it had to client organizations
to breach their networks.
Often, victim organizations would learn of the breach due to the non-stealthy behavior of the attackers. The
attackers would "get greedy," infecting multiple computers within the network of breached organizations. This
would raise an alarm in various defense systems, making the victims initiate incident response operations.
Page 4 of 48
©All rights reserved to ClearSky cyber security and Trend Micro, 2017