3 CONCLUSIONS
The problem of counterfeiting is wide and raises a number of concerns. Not only does it mean a loss of trust in
the brand, and loss of revenue for the company whose products get copied, but counterfeit devices also pose a
security risk to the victim companies.
The two counterfeit devices provided to us for this research were detected after a software upgrade resulted in
a failure. These units were assessed from both software and hardware perspectives to investigate whether the
victim company’s networks had been compromised via introducing "backdoor access”, and to understand how
and why counterfeit devices bypassed the platform’s authentication security control.
Both units reached their goal of circumventing the implemented platform authentication checks with similar
means on the software level by relying on patching the loaded and authenticated application image before
control was passed over to the application. The functionality implementing the patches was wrapped into
multiple layers of obfuscation. However, these authentication bypasses were performed on each boot and thus
were not persistent.
No further functionality was identified on the software level that could be considered as backdoors – both in
PowerPC and SLIMpro code. This conclusion was supported by the fact that genuine software was patched onthe-fly and the patches only served to circumvent authenticity checks.
On the hardware level, the two units took quite different approaches as to circumventing boot-time software
authentication.
Counterfeit A contained "add-on" circuitry which exploited a race condition in the SLIMpro ROM code to bypass
SLIMpro software verification. It did this by intercepting EEPROM control signals, replacing certain bytes in the
image being loaded to modify software behavior. It appears the processor PCB in this unit was not modified.
While Counterfeit A only received a post-manufacturing add-on circuitry, the PCB design of Counterfeit B was
changed to incorporate the modification of Counterfeit A and replaced the EEPROM completely with an
unknown integrated circuit. This signified a considerable resource investment in design, manufacture, and
testing of such forged products compared to the more low-cost ad-hoc approach used in Counterfeit A. The
board layout and silkscreen similarities also suggested that the people behind this forgery might have either
had access to Cisco proprietary engineering documentation such as PCB design files in order to be able to
modify them, or they invested heavily in the complicated process of replicating the original board design files
based solely on genuine boards.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 30
PUBLIC