6. CONCLUSION
The numerous well-implemented features and the network evasion techniques show the attackers
behind Kobalos are much more knowledgeable than the typical malware author targeting Linux and other
non-Windows systems. Their targets, being quite high profile, also show that the objective of the Kobalos
operators isn’t to compromise as many systems as possible. Its small footprint and network evasion
techniques may explain why it went undetected until we approached victims with the results of our
internet-wide scan.
One of the questions we cannot answer is what the intentions of the attackers are. The actions that
the backdoor can perform are very generic and could be used for any purpose. No other malware, besides
the SSH password stealer, was found on the compromised machines, which we strongly suspect as the entry
point rather than the payload. According to system administrators of the compromised HPC systems,
there was no attempt to perform cryptocurrency mining or any other computationally expensive tasks.
What are these attackers after?
Another thing we couldn’t determine is how long this malware has been in use. We found strings related
to Windows 3.11 and Windows 95 – operating systems released more that 25 years ago. Did Kobalos variants
exist for Windows and has this malware been around for such a long time? We know there were new
compromises in 2019 and 2020, but couldn’t find evidence of its usage before that time.
Even though the authors of this malware seem knowledgeable about IP networking and the operating
systems they target, there are still a few weaknesses to Kobalos. First, there are issues with the cryptography,
perhaps due to advances in the field if Kobalos actually is very old. Secondly, it’s possible to fingerprint
variants passively listening, especially if it requires a specific TCP source port. We successfully exploited
this flaw to find and notify victims in an effort to reduce the number of compromised hosts and better
understand this newly discovered threat.
We would like to acknowledge the work of Maciej Kotowicz from MalwareLab.pl who also analyzed Kobalos inde­
pendently and with whom we mutually share results. He presented on this threat at the Oh My H@ck 2020 conference.
27 A wild Kobalos appears Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs TLP: WHITE