Threat Actors’ Techniques
In order to reach or complete a specific phase, the threat
actors in the ATT&CK framework [11] use a wide variety
of techniques. Each phase can contain several techniques
Defense Evasion
Persistence
Execution
Privilege Escalation
and each technique can be used within more than one phase.
ATT&CK contains 224 of these techniques, which are found
in the various phases as follows:
59
56
31
28
Command & Control
Credential Access
Discovery
Lateral Movement
Collection
Initial Access
Exfiltration
21
20
19
17
13
10
9
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
The bar chart provides important insight into the modus
operandi of threat actors and clearly shows the phases in
which they posses the most capabilities. Looking at the
phases in terms of the number of techniques present,
the analysis shows that threat actors have access to a
very broad range of approaches for outsmarting defense
mechanisms in the different phases of the attack
through defense evasion, and just as many approaches
available to guarantee them long-term access in the
persistence phase.
11 https://attack.mitre.org/
Extract from the interview with Costin Raiu,
which also clarifies this statement:
What are the most important
capabilities to have to be prepared for
APT large-scale intrusions?
Organisations should know and
deeply understand how attackers work.
For example, which tools they use
(most of them use Mimikatz, Powershell,
Webshells) and how they operate
during the attack phases.
Most-used techniques by threat actor
An evaluation of the APT groups and their techniques
shows a clear trend towards file-less attacks. This was
also confirmed by Costin Raiu.
The following illustration shows the ten most
frequently used techniques across the 80 threat actors
within ATT&CK:
Scripting
PowerShell
Credential Dumping
User Execution
Obfuscated Files or Information
Spearphishing Attachment
Remote File Copy
Command-Line Interface
Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder
Standard Application Layer Protocol
What are the most significant changes
in APT activity that you are observing
and what areas are primarily affected by
these changes?
We observe more and more APT groups
engaging in fileless attacks.
This makes it more difficult to detect
infections, as no malicious files can be
found in the system.
30
29
28
26
25
25
25
25
23
33
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
The top ten approaches can be summarised under two themes: “Living off the land” and “Proven methods still work”.
Living off the land
Proven methods
still work
More and more APT groups are relying on scripting languages that are now integrated as
standard in Windows operating systems, such as PowerShell and command-line interfaces,
to execute their malicious code without being detected by application whitelisting solutions
or leaving significant traces on the system.
Registry run keys and entries in the Windows start-up folder remain the most popular
persistence mechanism technique among threat actors.
Not all threat actors have the resources to develop zero-day exploits. Most of them continue
to rely on spear phishing attachments and user execution to dupe users into executing
malicious code.
APT threat actors use simple ways to achieve their goals. Through Credential Dumping
adversaries obtain valid credentials and use them to move laterally inside of the target
network and ensure long-term access.
To disguise their code, attackers still rely on Encodings and Encryptions and do use common
protocols like HTTP or DNS to blend into normal traffic where the majority is using remote
file copy methods to transfer their malicious software.