Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency- grade spyware
blog.talosintelligence.com /intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware
Vitor Ventura December 21, 2023
By Vitor Ventura
Thursday, December 21, 2023 11:00
Threat Spotlight
By Mike Gentile, Asheer Malhotra and Vitor Ventura.
Editor’s note: This blog post is a public version of a talk presented at LabsCon 2023 on
Sept. 22, 2023. You can watch a recording of the talk here. Some of the intelligence
presented at LabsCon was later confirmed by an Amnesty International blog post
released on Oct. 6, 2023.
Cisco Talos has a new, in-depth analysis of timelines, operating paradigms and
procedures adopted by spyware vendor Intellexa (previously known as Cytrox).
Talos’ analysis revealed that rebooting an iOS or Android device may not always
remove the Predator spyware produced by Intellexa. Persistence is an add-on
feature provided by Intellexa for their implants and primarily depends on the
licensing options chosen by a customer.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 1/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
Intellexa knows if their customers intend to perform surveillance operations on
foreign soil.
Two years after its first public exposure, Intellexa’s Predator/Nova spyware
solution continues to be undetected by anti-virus solutions. Public reporting on
Intellexa’s operations has had little to no impact on their ability to conduct and
grow their business across the world.
Almost all publications on malicious operations conducted using Intellexa’s
spyware consist primarily of malicious domains as indicators of compromise
(IOCs). Talos assesses that the disclosure of such domains, managed by the
customers, has little to no effect on Intellexa’s operations and enables them to
preserve their malware implants due to a lack of technical disclosures.
After many users patched against the exploit chains used by Intellexa as of
December 2021, the spyware vendor started shipping a new exploit chain to at
least one new customer in early 2022 that covered the same and more recent
versions of the Android operating system.
In May 2023, Cisco Talos published the first ever in-depth technical report on Intellexa’s
spyware solution named Alien and Predator, showing its inner workings and
demonstrating the highly complex software architecture decisions required to make such
spyware work properly on the Android operating system. This research also sheds light
on several other aspects of the commercial spyware space, like plausible deniability, the
impacts of widespread media exposure and recruitment issues.
During the LabsCon 2023 cyber threat intelligence conference, Talos presented the
operational risks inherent to the commercial spyware landscape, using Intellexa as a use
case.
This research delves into the history of the Alien/Predator line of implants, illustrating
how a run-down spyware seller, Cytrox, was bought and transformed into an intelligence
agency-grade spyware vendor: Intellexa.