Targets with Access to a Large Amount of Private Information
While investigating the campaigns of Void Balaur, we noticed that the threat actor was targeting
organizations and individuals who potentially have access to a large amount of individuals’ sensitive data.
Some of these targets align with Void Balaur’s offerings in underground forums, while others are new.
We have observed Void Balaur targeting organizations and individuals in the following sectors:


Mobile and core telco companies


Cellular equipment vendors


Radio and satellite communication companies


ATM machine vendors


Point-of-sale (POS) system vendors


Fintech companies and banks


Business aviation companies


Medical insurance organizations in at least three regions of Russia


In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) clinics in Russia


Biotechnology companies that offer genetic testing services


The campaigns are often conducted over an extended period. We do not know exactly why these
organizations and individuals are being targeted. The size and lucrativeness of the industry may play a
role — take for example the IVF market, which has grown into a multibillion industry and could be a reason
for Void Balaur’s interest in IVF clinics (likely for corporate espionage). Besides targeting IVF doctors, Void
Balaur is also taking aim at academic researchers who study human and animal reproduction, which
could also support corporate espionage motives.
However, we also suspect that Void Balaur is hungry for data and information on individuals and could
be looking to expand their current business offerings and explore new methods of providing services to
customers. Offering individuals’ medical data is one example of this. Between May 23, 2020 and April 1,
22 | Void Balaur: Tracking a Cybermercenary’s Activities
2021, Void Balaur targeted more than 50 employees of over 20 Russian IVF clinics. Furthermore, the group
most likely targeted employees of at least four other companies that offer genetic testing services. The
threat actor also showed an interest in compulsory health insurance companies in at least three republics
of Russia. Finally, the group also targeted medical test labs, general physicians, and companies that
sell medical equipment. Doctors and medical service providers possess a sizeable amount of sensitive
information on their patients and there is likely a demand for this kind of data. Offering medical data would
be a natural addition to the services that Void Balaur is advertising today.
We already mentioned that Void Balaur offers sensitive telco data of individuals in some CIS countries,
including text messages and cell tower log files. We also discussed possible ways Void Balaur could
have retrieved this kind of data, such as compromising either a telco company or some of their key
employees. For this, we have supporting evidence (shown in Table 6): the threat actor has targeted key
engineers and managers working for mobile telco operators in Russia and Kazakhstan. The group has
also targeted two manufacturers of cellular equipment as well as companies that specialize in mobile
satellite communications and radio navigation (multiple times for the former).
In May and June 2021, Void Balaur added four Russian vendors of ATM and POS (Point of Sale) vendors
and two Russian virtual cash register service providers to their target list. A couple of Russian fintech
companies that offer innovative products were targeted as well. In our paper on the risks of open banking,
we warned that new fintech startups would be interesting targets for cybercriminals, because they have
plenty of information on the finances of individuals and sales data from shops and malls. [17]
In Table 5, we mentioned that Void Balaur offers data on purchased plane tickets, except for charters
and private planes. We also observed that the group has been targeting executives of various business
aviation companies. The reason why these executives were targeted could have been to fill the gap of
Void Balaur’s offerings on passenger details of charter flights and private planes.
23 | Void Balaur: Tracking a Cybermercenary’s Activities