Opened doors in medical networks
To find a potential entry point into medical infrastructure, we extract the
IP ranges of all organizations that have the keywords “medic”, “clinic”,
“hospit”, “surgery” and “healthcare” in the organization’s name, then we
start the masscan (port scanner) and parse the specialized search engines
(like Shodan and Censys) for publicly available resources of these
organizations.
Masscan report extract
Of course, medical perimeters contain a lot of trivial opened ports and
services: like web-server, DNS-server, mail-server etc. And you know
that’s just the tip of the iceberg. The most interesting part is the non
trivial ports. We left out trivial services, because as we mentioned in our
previous article those services are out of date and need to be patched. For
example, the web applications of electronic medical records that we
found on the perimeters in most cases were out of date.
The most popular ports are the tip of the iceberg. The most interesting
part is the non-trivial ports.
The most popular opened ports on medical perimeters (18,723 live hosts;
27,716 opened ports)
Using ZTag tool and Censys, we identify what kinds of services are hidden
behind these ports. If you try to look deeper in the embedded tag you will
see different stuff: for example printers, SCADA-type systems, NAS etc.
Top services on medical network perimeters
Excluding these trivial things, we found Building Management systems
that out of date. Devices using the Niagara Fox protocol usually operate
on TCP ports 1911 and 4911. They allow us to gather information remotely
from them, such as application name, Java version, host OS, time zone,
local IP address, and software versions involved in the stack.
Example of extracted information about Niagara Fox service
Or printers that have a web interface without an authentication request.
The dashboard available online and allows you to get information about
internal Wi-Fi networks or, probably, it allows you to get info about
documents that appeared in “Job Storage” logs.
Shodan told us that some medical organizations have an opened port

It’s a smart kettle. We don’t know why, but this model of kettle is

very popular in medical organizations. And they have publicly available
information about a vulnerability that allows a connection to the kettle to
be established using a simple pass and to extract info about the current
Wi-Fi connection.
Medical infrastructure has a lot of medical devices, some of them
portable. And devices like spirometers or blood pressure monitors
support the MQTT protocol to communicate with other devices directly.
One of the main components of the MQTT communication – brokers (see
here for detailed information about components) are available through
the Internet and, as a result, we can find some medical devices online.
Not only Smart Home components, but also medical devices are available
via MQTT Spirometer