Operations Over Time
The duality of APT41's state-sponsored activity and its own cyber crime
operations is demonstrated in the group's simultaneous operations. Throughout
the group’s observable history, APT41 has consistently run its own financially
motivated campaigns concurrently with espionage operations. In contrast,
APT41 espionage targeting has changed significantly over time, suggesting
shifts in assigned missions or new contracts to complete. A breakdown of
industries targeted by APT41 over time can be found in Figure 2.

We believe that like other Chinese espionage operators, APT41 has moved

toward strategic intelligence collection and establishing access, but away from
direct intellectual property theft. This shift, however, has not affected the group's
consistent interest in targeting the video game industry for financially motivated
reasons.
– We have not observed evidence of IP theft since late 2015.
–
In 2014, APT41 was observed carrying out espionage campaigns
concurrently with financially motivated intrusions, demonstrating that they
could balance different objectives simultaneously.

Espionage operations occurred while the group was still carrying out

financially motivated campaigns, including longer-term intrusions, which
typically extended for more than a year.
–
In one instance, APT41 was attempting to steal data from a healthcare target
while also attempting to deploy ransomware at a video game studio.

Compromising organizations in different sectors concurrently provides some

indication that they are fulfilling specific assigned tasks.
–
Campaigns have expanded into additional industries including telecoms,
the automotive sector, higher education, and travel services.
–
In 2015, we observed a time period in which eight organizations in six
different industries were compromised simultaneously.

Since 2017, APT41's activities have included a series of supply chain

compromises. The operation injects malware into legitimate server software
packages used by hundreds of companies worldwide but limits deployment
of additional payloads to select targets.
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 9
Figure 2: Timeline
of industries
targeted by APT41.