The most remarkable findings
On January 14, 70 Ukrainian websites were defaced: the attackers posted the message “be
afraid and expect the worst”. The defacement message on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
website, written in Ukrainian, Russian and Polish, suggested that personal data uploaded
to the site had been destroyed. Subsequently, DDoS attacks hit several government
websites. The following day, Microsoft reported that it had found destructive malware,
dubbed WhisperGate, on the systems of government bodies and agencies that work
closely with the Ukrainian government. We analyzed the associated samples and
concluded that the deployed malware was not comparable in complexity or code
similarity to malware leveraged in previous destruction campaigns such as NotPetya or
BadRabbit; but was much more reminiscent of that typically used by cybercriminals. We
also identified two samples developed in December 2021 containing test strings and
preceding revisions of the ransom note observed in Microsoft’s shared samples. It
remains unclear who is behind the attack, although Serhiy Demedyuk, deputy secretary of
Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council, stated that it was the work of UNC1151,
a threat actor believed to be linked to Belarus. Throughout our investigation, we
identified two samples developed in December 2021 containing test strings and earlier
revisions of the ransom note observed in Microsoft’s shared samples. We concluded with
high confidence that these samples were earlier iterations of the wiper reportedly used in
Ukraine. Additionally, we suspect that the MBR wiper was initially developed at that time
and repurposed more recently for the above campaign. This could have been done either
by an advanced actor with the intention of conveying the false notion that the operation
was being conducted by criminals; or in cooperation with lower-tier threat actors who
contributed their own resources.
On January 26, CERT-UA published a report showing code similarity between
WhisperKill (the file wiper used during the WhisperGate campaign) and
WhiteBlackCrypt, a wiper used in the first quarter of 2021. While we were unable to
obtain the same results by analyzing the CERT-UA samples, we subsequently identified a
different WhiteBlackCrypt sample matching the WhisperKill architecture and sharing
similar code. We also investigated the Bitcoin wallets used by both WhisperGate and
WhiteBlackCrypt, but were unable to uncover any link between the two.
On February 23, ESET published a tweet announcing new wiper malware targeting
Ukraine. The malware was more advanced than the samples identified earlier in the year
that we documented in two of our private reports. This wiper, named HermeticWiper by
the research community, abuses legitimate drivers from EaseUS Partition Master to
corrupt the drivers of the compromised system. One of the identified samples was
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2022/106351/ 2/10
5/4/22, 12:47 PM APT trends report Q1 2022 | Securelist
compiled on December 28, 2021, suggesting that this destructive campaign had been
planned for months. At the time of publication, we had not identified any similarities
between HermeticWiper and other known malware.
The following day, Avast Threat Research announced the discovery of new Golang
ransomware in Ukraine, which they dubbed HermeticRansom. This malware was found
around the same time as HermeticWiper; and publicly available information from the
security community indicated that it was used in recent cyberattacks in Ukraine. Due to
its unsophisticated style and poor implementation, this new ransomware was probably
only a smokescreen for the HermeticWiper attack, due to its non-sophisticated style and
poor implementation. We named this malware Elections GoRansom.
In late February 2022, we identified two archives submitted from network addresses in
Ukraine to an online multi-scanner service. Both archives leveraged the name of the
Security Service of Ukraine (SBU or СБУ) to trick targets into executing a Remote Access
Tool (RAT). We were unable to determine the ultimate goal of deploying such RATs, or
associate the campaigns with any known threat actor, but the two archives appear linked
together and may have been deployed by the same operators. Such threats pose a risk to
Ukrainian organizations and their partners, as well as foreign organizations with
premises in Ukraine. The RAT deployment campaigns look like they are targeted at
developing access at scale in Ukraine, which could match activities from criminal groups
that pledged allegiance to Russia, and may enable further destructive activities.
On March 1, ESET published a blog post related to wipers used in Ukraine and to the
ongoing conflict: in addition to HermeticWiper, this post introduced IsaacWiper, used to
target specific machines previously compromised with another remote administration
tool named RemCom, commonly used by attackers for lateral movement within
compromised networks. Contrary to reporting from other vendors, this wiper does not
leverage the Isaac PRNG.
On March 10, researchers from the Global Research and Analysis Team shared their
insights into past and present cyberattacks in Ukraine. You can find the recording of the
webinar here and a summary/Q&A here.
On March 22, the Ukraine CERT published a new alert about the DoubleZero wiper
targeting the country. This is a new wiper, written in .NET, with no similarities to
previously discovered wipers targeting Ukrainian entities. According to the CERT public
statement, the campaign took place on March 17, when several targets in Ukraine
received a ZIP archive with the filename “Вирус… крайне опасно!!!.zip” (translation:
“Virus… extremely dangerous!!!.zip”).