NIST CSF Identify
Identification tips

Identify assets, asset owners

and asset access controls
as part of an effective
and comprehensive risk
management strategy

Align risk management with

the organization’s business
objectives to add business
value and gain buy-in from
decision makers

Leverage cyber threat

intelligence to help prioritize
Cyber-Espionage attacks as
part of the risk management
process

Avoid complacency.

Cyber-Espionage attacks
can potentially impact all
organizations—even those in
lesser-targeted industries
VERIS and the Center for Internet
Security (CIS) Critical Security
Controls (CSCs), as well as the
VERIS Common Attack Framework
(VCAF)—a VERIS-to-MITRE ATT&CK®
Framework introduced in the 2020
DBIR—are publicly available resources
for formalizing incident and threat
data. VERIS helps categorize security
incidents, while CIS CSCs help focus
on cybersecurity controls.
Risk analysis, asset identification and
incident classification can inform the
appropriate measures for preventing,
mitigating, detecting and responding
to threat actors while also maintaining
the ability to meet organizational
business objectives.
Develop an organizational understanding
to manage cybersecurity risk to systems,
people, assets, data and capabilities.
A fundamental requirement for a solid
information security posture is identifying
assets before the adversary does. It’s
only when the unknowns become known
that assets and data can be protected.
After all, you don’t know—and cannot
protect—what you don’t know.
Asset identification is a foundational
part of the risk management process,
which aims to define and prioritize risks
for an organization. Risk managers often
build matrices listing threats in order
of severity. They also classify assets
in terms of confidentiality, integrity and
availability (referred to as the “CIA Triad”);
consider the impact of security breaches
on the organization; and estimate the
likelihood of certain incidents.
Risk management also requires an
organization to identify asset owners
and asset access controls. Asset
identification and risk management
should align with the organization’s
business objectives to add value to
the business and help gain buy-in
from decision makers. For example,
a business-driven risk management
strategy could include:


Defining objectives


Identifying assets and threats


Selecting and prioritizing targets


Monitoring and detecting threats


Responding and improving response


capabilities
While it can be an overwhelming task
to start from scratch, it’s possible to
develop a risk management process
with smaller objectives by incorporating
cyber threat intelligence and building
and refining from there.
An organization that leverages cyber
threat intelligence to prioritize CyberEspionage attacks as part of its
risk management process can start
by asking questions relevant to the
organization, such as:

How prevalent are Cyber-Espionage

attacks compared to other
cybersecurity attack patterns?

Which Cyber-Espionage threat

actors have been targeting other
similar organizations? Based on this,
how likely is the organization to be
targeted?


What assets and data are Cyber
Espionage threat actors targeting?


What are the common TTPs of


Cyber-Espionage threat actors?
If the answers to these questions
point to lower risk, does it mean that in
some industries, such as Healthcare
or Accommodation, organizations
should not be concerned with CyberEspionage? Not at all. This data
shouldn’t be analyzed without context.
For example, while the number of CyberEspionage breaches may be lower in
some industries, the impact of sensitive
or proprietary data exposure on an
organization in one of those lessertargeted industries could be substantial.
Long story short: Just because your
organization’s industry has not been
a typical target for Cyber-Espionage
threat actors doesn’t mean it won’t be,
can’t be or hasn’t been.
To contextualize information for an
organization, it’s not uncommon
to deploy an internal cyber threat
intelligence team or to wholly or partly
outsource this capability.
9 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report