Installation and load point
Stuxnet 0.5 arrives as an infected Step 7 project archive containing both the s7hkimdb.dll and XR000001.MDX
files. Using the Multiple Siemens SIMATIC Products DLL Loading Arbitrary Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-
2012-3015), the S7hkimdb.dll file is executed, which then decrypts and injects the main XR00001.MDX Stuxnet
binary file into the services.exe process. Stuxnet is now executing on the system.
Once injected into the services.exe process, a copy of the main Stuxnet binary and a companion DLL that
implements the payload are saved to disk in encrypted form along with a MRXCLS.SYS load point driver. The
main Stuxnet binary refers to itself as outbreak.dll and is saved to disk as oem7a.pnf. The companion DLL that
implements the payload refers to itself as installation.dll and saved to disk as oem7w.pnf. When the system is
booted, the MRXCLS.SYS load point driver will decrypt configuration data stored in the registry, decrypt the
main Stuxnet binary, and inject it into the Explorer and Step 7 processes. The payload DLL will be decrypted as
well and injected into the Explorer process. When loading dynamic-link library (DLL) resources, Stuxnet makes
use of a module that mimics LoadLibrary rather than calling LoadLibrary itself. This technique is likely
used to avoid security software and was not seen in versions 1.x of Stuxnet.
A second driver, PCIBUS.SYS, is also created which causes a forced reboot by generating a BSoD (Blue Screen of
Death) 20 days after installation.
A third driver, USBACC11.SYS, is then installed. This driver is similar to the MRXCLS.SYS driver, but instead
decrypts and injects DLLs for peer-to-peer and C&C communication into the svchost.exe and Internet Explorer
processes.
The structure and organization as well as resource and export listings of each component is available in
Appendix D.
Stuxnet 0.5 also checks the current date in a variety of code paths and will not continue to spread after July 4,
2009. Certain modules may also not be created or loaded if security software is present. A list is available in
Appendix B.
A variety of additional files are created, including log files and configuration files. A list is available in Appendix
A.