INTRODUCTION
The number of targeted attacks has dramatically
increased. Unlike largely indiscriminate attacks that focus
on stealing credit card and banking information associated
with cybercrime, targeted attacks noticeably differ and
are better characterized as “cyber espionage.” Highly
targeted attacks are computer intrusions threat actors
stage in order to aggressively pursue and compromise
specific targets, often leveraging social engineering, in
order to maintain persistent presence within the victim’s
network so they can move laterally and extract sensitive
information. [1]
In a typical targeted attack, a target receives a
contextually relevant email that encourages a potential
victim to click a link or open a file. [2] The links and files
the attackers send contain malicious code that exploits
vulnerabilities in popular software. The exploits’ payload
is a malware that is silently executed on the target’s
computer. This exploitation allows the attackers to
take control of and obtain data from the compromised
computer. In other cases, the attackers send disguised
executable files, usually compressed in archives that,
if opened, also compromise the target’s computer. The
malware connects back to command-and-control (C&C)
servers under the attackers’ control from which they
can command the compromised computer to download
additional malware and tools that allow them to move
laterally throughout the target’s network. These attacks
are, however, not isolated “smash-and-grab” incidents but
are part of consistent campaigns that aim to establish
covert presence in a target’s network so that information
can be extracted as needed.
Targeted attacks are rarely isolated events. In fact,
they are constant. It is more useful to think of them as
campaigns—a series of failed and successful attempts
to compromise a target’s network over a certain period
of time. The attackers, in fact, often keep track of the
different attacks within a campaign in order to determine
which individual attack compromised a specific victim’s
network. As the attackers learn more about their targets
from open source research—relying on publicly available
information, as well as previous attacks, the specificity of
the attacks may sharply increase.
1 http://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-content/us/pdfs/security-
intelligence/white-papers/wp_trends-in-targeted-attacks.pdf
2 Targeted attacks can sometimes be conducted through instant
messages instead of emails.
The Luckycat campaign attacked a diverse set of targets
using a variety of malware, some of which have been
linked to other cyber-espionage campaigns. The attackers
behind this campaign maintain a diverse set of C&C
infrastructure and leverages anonymity tools to obfuscate
their operations. We were able to track elements of this
campaign to hackers based in China.