Attribution Attributing Clusters A, B and C
After analyzing all of the data we accumulated through our platform, incident response efforts, malware analysis, and threat intelligence, we were able to define three distinct clusters of malicious
activity. Each cluster is characterized with its own set of TTPs and infrastructure which appear to have operated independently, according to our analysis:
Cluster A: Attributed to the Soft Cell Activity Group
Based on the evidence provided in this report as well as internal and publicly available information, Cybereason assesses with high level of confidence that the intrusions detailed in this cluster are
consistent with previous activities carried out by the Soft Cell activity group. Soft Cell has yet been attributed to a specific threat actor, however, it is assessed that the group operates on behalf of Chinese
state interests. As shown in our report, there are some interesting links between the Soft Cell activity group and the APT41/Winnti threat actor, nevertheless, at the time of writing this report, there is not
enough evidence to tie the two with sufficient certainty.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos 30/35
8/4/2021 DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos
Cluster B: Suspected to be the Naikon APT Group
Based on the information provided in this report as well as information that is publicly available regarding the Naikon APT threat actor activity, Cybereason assesses with moderate confidence that the
intrusions detailed in this cluster were carried out by the Naikon APT group.
Cluster C: Potentially Related to Group-3390 (also tracked as Emissary Panda, APT27)
Based on the information provided in this report, Cybereason assesses with low-to-moderate confidence that the intrusions detailed in this cluster were carried out by a threat actor who had access to the
code of the “Dllshellexc2007” and “Dllshellexc2010” backdoors detailed in operation “Iron Tiger” and attributed by TrendMicro to Group-3390.
That being said, we cannot ignore certain interesting overlaps when it comes to the aforementioned clusters. In one particular instance, Cybereason observed all three clusters on the same environment,
and in some cases even operating on the same endpoints around similar time frames. Whether this is merely a coincidence, or the clusters are somehow inter-connected, is not entirely clear at this point
in time.
Among the three clusters, we lean towards the possibility that Cluster A and C might be connected based on the fact that they have been operating in the same environment for over three years (since
2017/2018), while Cluster B only emerged in 2020 Q4. In addition, the OWA backdoor described in Cluster C was previously proven to interact with the China Chopper WebShell that was used
extensively in Cluster A.
Based on our understanding and past experience with Chinese threat actors, there are several hypotheses that might explain those overlaps:
One hypothesis is that the clusters represent the work of two or more teams with different sets of expertise (e.g initial access team, foothold, telco-technology specialized team, etc.) all working
together and reporting to the same Chinese threat actor.
A second hypothesis is that there are two or more Chinese threat actors with different agendas / tasks that are aware of each other’s work and potentially even working in tandem.
Another plausible hypothesis is that the clusters are not interconnected and that the threat actors are working independently with no collaboration, or even piggybacking on the access achieved
by one of the actors involved.
One thing that remains consistent and evident in all three clusters is that they all point to threat actors that are believed to be operating on behalf of Chinese state interests. It is also not surprising that
the Telcos targeted in these intrusions are located in ASEAN countries, some of which have long term publicly known disputes with the PRC (People’s Republic of China).