1. Introduction
This is the 2018 version of the ENISA Threat Landscape (ETL 2018) yearly report. It is the seventh in a
series of ENISA reports analysing the state-of-the-art in cyberthreats based on open source material [1] . This
report is the result of a one-year long collection, analysis and assessment activity of cyberthreat related
information found in the public domain. Moreover, it captures experience gained through interactions
with experts during various ENISA events on the topic of Cyberthreat Intelligence (CTI) [16,19] . The time span
of the ETL 2018 is ca. December 2017 to December 2018 and is referred to as the “reporting period”
throughout the report.
In essence, ETL 2018 has maintained the structure of the previous ETL [2] by using the same template for the
description of the assessed cyberthreats.
As part of the annual improvement process, some adaptations have been applied to the ETL 2018. These
improvements, originated from discussions with internal/external experts, helped increasing the
efficiency in generating the report, collecting and disseminating the information and establishing better
coherence among a variety of ENISA materials on cyberthreats. As opposed to the ETL 2017, in 2018 these
advancements are merely content-oriented. Firstly, we included some work performed by ENISA in the
area of CTI Maturity Model. Secondly, the assessment of threats has been brought into a wider basis,
leveraging upon contributions of additional experts who have supported the information collection and
the assessment exercise.
An additional step in advancing ETL 2018 has been the inclusion of CTI knowledge obtained within related
ENISA events. Both the ENISA - FORTH Summer School and the ENISA event of CTI (CTI EU) [3] have
delivered valuable insights into the trends governing current CTI state-of-the-art. This knowledge has
been integrated in this report by means of content related to CTI State-of-Play, the assessed cyberthreats
and the conclusions drawn.
The channels used for information collection, ENISA has used information provided by the MISP
platform [4], by CERT-EU [5] and by also using threat intelligence of the cyber-security portal CYjAX [6], granted
as access pro bono to ENISA. Confidential information found in these platforms has been taken into
account in our analysis without any disclosure or reference to this material.
Finally, it is worth mentioning that in 2018 ENISA has advanced with an established liaison with the EU
agencies with cyber-security on the mandate. This involves the European Defence Agency (EDA), CERT-EU
and EC3. This has been implemented by means of discussions for a more enhanced cooperation among all
1 It is worth mentioning, that in this chapter some parts of the ETL 2017 text have been reused, in particular
regarding the sections policy context and target group. These two topics are considered mostly identical to the
previous landscapes. Some changes have been added to policy context to reflect recent developments in EU–
regulations.
2 https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/enisa-news/enisa-report-the-2017-cyber-threat-landscape, accessed
November 2018.
3 https://www.enisa.europa.eu/events/2018-cti-eu-event, accessed November 2018.
4 http://www.misp-project.org/, accessed November 2018.
5 https://cert.europa.eu/cert/filteredition/en/CERT-LatestNews.html, accessed November 2018.
6 https://www.cyjax.com/, accessed November 2018.
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019
four organisations, on the basis of a Memorandum of Understanding that has been signed in the
reporting period [7] .
The links to these institutions already existed at a working level. ENISA has a tight cooperation with CERTEU in the area of threat information. This is implemented by means of mutual reviews of cyberthreat
assessments, use of CERT-EU services and by intensive personal communication.
While with EC3 and EDA a working relationship already exists, this year cooperation in the area of CTI has
advanced with the ENISA CTI EU event that was commonly supported by all four institutions. In addition,
in 2018, ENISA has intensified its cooperation with the Commission services by engaging resources from
DG Connect and European Security and Defence College within its CTI EU event [16] .