Similarities with the known downloader DOWNIISSA
By conducting a detailed analysis, we confirmed that the Downloader Shellcode we found
and the known downloader DOWNIISSA have three similarities.
However, we believe that DOWNIISSA and the Downloader Shellcode we analyzed are
from different malware families based on their structure.
Similarities:

Self-patching mechanism to hide malicious code

Encoding method for C2 server information


Structure of the data decrypted from the Fake PEM file


Reference
APT10: Tracking down LODEINFO 2022, part I
Similarities 1: Self-patching mechanism to hide malicious code
The first similarity is the patching mechanism to decode the Shellcode itself.
DOWNIISSA, reported in 2022, had a process to patch the Shellcode itself when the
Shellcode was executed. The newly found Downloader Shellcode also has a selfpatching mechanism.
Figure 11. The self-patching mechanism in Downloader Shellcode
Although it is similar in DOWNIISA that it performs self-patching within the Shellcode,
there are also clear differences. DOWNIISSA used Base64, but the current Downloader
Shellcode uses XOR decoding. The XOR key is used one by one, increasing from 0x00
to 0xFF.
Similarities 2: Encoding method for the C2 server information
The second similarity is that the encoding method of the C2 server information embedded
in the Shellcode is the same. The Downloader Shellcode contains two C2 server
addresses, which are encoded with a single-byte XOR. The embedding method is also
https://blog-en.itochuci.co.jp/entry/2024/01/24/134100 11/17
1/30/24, 1:41 PM The Endless Struggle Against APT10: Insights from LODEINFO v0.6.6 - v0.7.3 Analysis - Researcher Blog - ITOCHU Cyber & Intelligen…
very similar, not only the encoding method.
Figure 12. C2 server information and the Fake PEM file embedded in the Downloader Shellcode
Similarities 3: Structure of the data decrypted from the Fake PEM file
As mentioned above, the structure of the data decrypted from the Fake PEM file is a
unique structure, and it has been confirmed that it adopts the same data structure as
which decrypted by DOWNIISA.