Codenames and Popular Culture Referenced in Lamberts
The threat group(s) behind the Lambert toolkits have used a large number of codenames
extensively throughout their projects. Some of these codenames are references to old computer
games, Star Trek, and cartoons, which is very unusual for high profile APT groups. We really
enjoyed going through the backstories of these codenames and wanted to provide them below for
others to enjoy as well.
For instance, one of the Green Lambert versions has the internal codename “GORDON FLASH”,
which can also be read as “FLASH GORDON”. Flash Gordon is the hero of a space opera
adventure comic strip created by and originally drawn by Alex Raymond. It was first published in
1934 and subsequently turned into a popular film in 1980.
Flash Gordon poster
A ‘Funnel cake’ is a regional food popular in North America
at carnivals, fairs, sporting events, and seaside resorts.
This explains the codename “FUNNELCAKE CARNIVAL”:
Figure 9. A typical funnel cake
Spock and Prosper obviously refers to Star Trek, the wellknown science fiction television series created by Gene
Roddenberry. Cdr. Spock is a half-Vulcan, half-human
character, portrayed by Leonard Nimoy. “Live long and
prosper” is the traditional Vulcan greeting in the series.
Leonard Nimoy as “Spock” displaying the traditional Vulcan
greeting “Live long and prosper”
https://securelist.com/unraveling-the-lamberts-toolkit/77990/ 8/12
3/4/2020 Unraveling the Lamberts Toolkit | Securelist
Ringtoss is a game that is very popular at carnivals in North
America.
https://securelist.com/unraveling-the-lamberts-toolkit/77990/ 9/12
3/4/2020 Unraveling the Lamberts Toolkit | Securelist
DOUBLESIDED SCOOBYSNACK is likely a reference to an NFL Lip Reading video featuring
Adrian Peterson that went viral in mid-2013. According to the urban dictionary, it is also used to
denote a sexual game in which the participants are dressed as Scooby-Doo and his master.
Ape Escape (also known as Saru Get You ( サルゲッチュ Saru Getchu) in Japan) is a series of
video games made by SCE Japan Studio, starting with Ape Escape for PlayStation in 1999. The
series often incorporates ape-related humor, unique gameplay, and a wide variety of pop culture
references; it is also notable for being the first game to make the DualShock or Dual Analog
controller mandatory.
Ape Escape
INVERTED SHOT is likely a reference to a mixed martial arts move also known as an ‘Imanari roll
takedown’, named after Masakazu Imanari who popularized the grappling technique. It consists of
a modified Brazilian jiu-jitsu granby roll that places the fighter in inverted guard position while
taking the opponent down to the mat.
GAI and SHU (as used in Green Lambert OS X) are characters from the Guilty Crown anime
series. Gai Tsutsugami ( 恙神 涯 Tsutsugami Gai) is the 17-year-old resourceful and charismatic
leader of the “Funeral Parlor” resistance group, while Shu Ouma ( 桜満 集 Ōma Shū) is the 17year-old main protagonist of Guilty Crown.
https://securelist.com/unraveling-the-lamberts-toolkit/77990/ 10/12
3/4/2020 Unraveling the Lamberts Toolkit | Securelist
Figure 10. Main characters of Guilty Crown with Shu Ouma in the middle.