Timeline & Details of Sampled Events
Cyber Espionage
Sabotage
Incidental/Misc
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Sophisticated infection and data exfiltrationin Iraq of corporate secrets suspected to be part of the Night Dragon campaign
Earliest known intrusion of Shady RAT in the Gas industry–sophisticated infection and data exfiltration of corporate secrets
A disgrunted former contractor for PER intentionally disables offshore oil rig safety controls remotely off the coast of California
McAfee starts monitoring the Night Dragon cyber espionage campaign against oil, energy, and petrochemical companies
Symantec ties back a Google hack to a campaign referred to as the Elderwood Project that targets Oil/Gas targets amongst others
Deepwater Horizon Oil Rig suffers catastrophic failure; Control safety Systems had been rendered inhibited
BG Group Plc and CHK. are alleged to be victim of sophisticated data exfiltration of corporate secrets reported by Bloomberg
Talisman Energy & Halliburton Co. are targeted by the comment group as part of a corporate espionage campaign
Sophisticated infection and data exfiltration of corporate secrets from unspecified oil & gas companies in Norway
Virus infects a series control systems on Kharg Island, Iran’s main oil exportation station, causing them to shut down the terminals
Dell’s Counter Threat Unit begins tracking the Mirage cyber espionage campaign—Sophisticated data exfiltration of corporate secrets
Anonymous hackers target oil industry giants, exposing more than 1,000 email credentials
Shamoon virus systematically exfiltrates corporate data and wiped hard drives of over 30,000 computers at Saudi’s Aramco
Sophisticated infection and data exfiltration of corporate secrets from Telvent, ltd.
Virus infects a series control systems on Kharg Island, Iran’s main oil exportation station, causing them to shut down the terminals
Anonymous announces their intent to attack international oil companies in “#OpFuelStrike”
Kaspersky announces Red October, a highly flexible cyber espionage virus which targets, amongst others, global oil & gas companies
Mandiant releases a document entitled APT1 which implicates China’s PLA sponsored espionage, including within the Oil Industry
5
The CSM highlights a “restricted” DHS report states 23 gas pipeline companies were targeted via spear-fishing
Given this data set, a natural escalation of events appears to occur, with the frequency of incidents continuing
to rise. This can partially be explained by a growing international awareness of the vulnerabilities and perils involved in
internet-facing control systems of all kinds; as events occur, they garner additional attention and therefore induce ad­
ditional incidents.
However, there are other interesting observations to be made from this data. Largely, the incidents of great note
have occurred in either North America or the Middle East. When considering that three of the top five oil producing
countries are in these regions (Saudi Arabia, the United States, and Iran), this is not surprising. Yet substantive reports
of similar incidents are markedly absent in the other two of the top five oil producing countries (China and Russia), and
this is noteworthy. The argument could be made that this is due to language barriers and tight control on information
dissemination, but it is improbable that a significant incident would have gone entirely unnoticed by all media outlets. As
the incidents themselves make apparent, human threat actors are involved, and what remains to be identified is whether
there is the complexity, overarching coordination, or recurring threat source that would point to an advanced threat such
as a state actor or complex non-state actor.
Before continuing with the possible attribution of events, some base discussion and criteria for the threat sourc­
es must be established. A threat source is considered to be a human-based or natural entity which possesses a capabil­
ity that aligns with an unmitigated vulnerability. The threat sources which will be considered must meet the minimum
requirement of having both the motive and the means to carry out the attack. Once a hypothesis consisting of these ele­
ments is established, it will be scrutinized to determine whether or not the events surrounding the incident or series of
incidents align in any obvious political, strategic, operational and tactical manner. The means in this case consists of both
the opportunity and the technological capability to cause the incident to occur, and the motives that will be considered
are economic gain, retribution, or political agenda (to include ideology).
The US Army notes in their Cyber Concept & Capabilities plan for 2016-2028 that cyber capabilities pose a
unique and attractive opportunity to an inferior, asymmetric enemy to temporarily gain equivalence with a superior en­
emy because of its relatively low initial cost, high return on investment, and plausible deniability due to issues with attri­
bution. Because of this fact, it is highly likely that multiple foreign agencies as well as powerful corporate denizens have
used and continue to make use of cyber capabilities to affect favorable outcomes. The rest of the report will attempt to
substantiate this claim through critical analysis.
6