What we’re seeing
Cybercrime follows the contemporary issues of the day
The threat environment we face continues to evolve. Cybercriminals are creative, well-resourced, well-organized,
and innovative. They move quickly to discover new threat vectors, use new exploits, and respond to new defenses.
Attackers are opportunistic and will even switch lure themes daily in accordance with news cycles, as seen in
cybercriminals’ use of the global COVID-19 pandemic to broadly target consumers, as well as to specifically
target hospitals and healthcare providers.
COVID-19-themed attacks: United StatesGraph: Total COVID-19 themed attack encounters in the United States, February through June 2020, with a peak in mid-March at around 5 and a half million.
The lack of basic security hygiene in any given ecosystem continues to enable cybercriminals to use well-known
vulnerabilities—or new variants of them—to exploit their environments. They also were observed to leverage
the fear and uncertainty associated with COVID-19 with great success. While the COVID-19-themed attacks
represent a small percentage of the total of malware we observed, our tracking of these themed attacks shows
how rapidly cybercriminals move to adapt their lures to the topics of the day.Photo depicting a person wearing a face mask and walking across a city street.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Instances of unique and total malware encounters in relation to local news events of the day, as seen in the United States, the United Kingdom, and South Korea
COVID-19-themed attacks:
United States
COVID-19-themed attacks:
United Kingdom
Source: Verizon Annual Data Breach Incident Report 2020, Figure 7Graph depicting unique and total malware encounters for COVID-19-themed attacks in the United States, February to June 2020. Encounter numbers rose following notable news events with the highest numbers on a given day reaching over 70 thousand on March 14.Graph depicting unique and total malware encounters for COVID-19-themed attacks in the United Kingdom, February to June 2020. Encounter numbers rose following notable news events with the highest numbers on a given day reaching nearly 7 thousand on March 14.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 11
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
As our threat intelligence teams at Microsoft actively monitor and respond to these shifts in focus, our telemetry
shows that, while the overall volume of malware remains largely the same, adversaries used the COVID-19
theme to socially engineer lures around the anxiety and the flood of information associated with the pandemic.
Attackers also exploited the crisis to reduce their dwell time within a victim’s system—compromising, exfiltrating
data, and in some cases ransoming quickly—apparently believing that there would be an increased willingness
to pay as a result of the outbreak. It’s a common understanding among defenders to “never waste a crisis” and
to use the information from the crisis to help inform the investments needed. Cybercriminals share the same
philosophy; they seek to blend their well-established tactics and malware with human curiosity and our need
for information.
COVID-19-themed attacks:
South Korea
Source: Verizon Annual Data Breach Incident Report 2020, Figure 7Graph depicting unique and total malware encounters for COVID-19-themed attacks in South Korea, February to June 2020. Encounter numbers rose following notable news events with the highest numbers on a given day reaching nearly 4 and a half thousand in late April.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 12
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
News events, criminal activity, and Microsoft’s response
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 13
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
[Our intelligence shows that these attacks settled ]
into a rhythm that’s the normal ebb and flow of
the threat environment. Our telemetry shows that
China, the United States, and Russia were hit the
hardest, but every country in the world saw at least
one COVID-19-themed attack, with the volume of
successful attacks in outbreak-hit countries increasing
as fear and the desire for information grew.
Of course, COVID-19 was just one of the themes
exploited by cybercriminals. Microsoft’s Digital
Crimes Unit (DCU) continues to work with partners
and proper authorities in more than 50 countries
to take coordinated legal and technical steps to
take down malicious domains and URLs, and, where
possible, to prosecute the individuals behind them.
For more information on COVID-19-related
cybercrime, see the Nation state threats chapter of
this report.
Learn more:
Microsoft takes legal action against COVID-19-related
cybercrime 2020/07/07
Microsoft shares new threat intelligence, security
guidance during global crisis 2020/04/08
Relative impact of COVID-19-themed attacks across the world by file count (as of July 1, 2020)A map depicting relative impact of COVID-19-themed attacks around the world.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing. 14
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Phishing and business email compromise
Email phishing in the enterprise context continues to grow and has become a dominant vector. Essentially,
phishing occurs when individuals or organizations receive a fraudulent email encouraging them to click on a
link, giving the cybercriminal access to a device or personal information.
From our view in Office 365 telemetry, we see customers facing three main forms of phishing:

Credential phishing

The cybercriminal attempts to pose as a well-known service in the email template (typically Microsoft and other
established enterprise SaaS services). They then try to lure the user into clicking on a link, which, through a
series of misdirections, will present a fake login page to the user. Once a credential has been compromised, it
can be used to launch different kill chains to build further persistence inside an organization by using cloud-only
APIs and systems, and to move around laterally to steal data, money, or otherwise breach the organization.
Example of credential phishing:
The cybercriminals begin by setting up a criminal infrastructure designed to steal an individual’s credentials
(phishing kits often contain everything they need for this). The cybercriminals send malicious email to the
unsuspecting individual, who then clicks on a link within the email. The individual might then be taken to a fake
web form to enter their credentials, or the site might contain malware that’s automatically downloaded to their
device, capturing credentials stored on the device or in the browser memory. The victim’s credentials are then
collected by the cybercriminals who use the credentials to gain access to legitimate websites or even the victim’s
corporate network. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Reduce risk of security breaches with strong authentication.² Strong authentication can protect your ]
users from the vast majority of identity attacks. Passwordless authentication options are recommended for
best security and user experience. Using an authenticator app is always the preferred option over SMS/voice
authentication.
2 Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection and Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection both protect against credential phishing and BEC. An infographic of the credential phishing example.
Credential phishing example
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 15
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY

Business email compromise (aka CEO fraud or vendor compromise)

Business email compromise is a type of phishing that specifically targets businesses. It’s characterized by
techniques used to pose as someone who the victims will likely take notice of, such as the company CEO, CFO,
or the accounts receivable clerk. BEC can also involve a business-to-business transaction. For example, the
cybercriminal might fraudulently access a company’s system and then pose as that company to fraudulently
request payment from another company.
Depending on the entity that gets impersonated or spoofed, the attack can be categorized as BEC, CEO fraud, or
vendor compromise.
While the industry and vendor-specific terminology for this class of attacks has been evolving, at its core it
employs three basic patterns of a cybercriminal posing as another entity:
    - Cybercriminal creates an _exact spoof_ of an established person or organization that the recipient has

a relationship with, and then gains trust to deliver the fraud. For example, the email comes from an
infrastructure controlled by the cybercriminal but appears to come from a legitimate person (sender address
is identical).
    - Cybercriminal creates a _look-alike impersonation_ of an established person or organization that the recipient

has a relationship with, and then gains trust to deliver the fraud. For example, the criminal signs up for and
sends from this account: YourCompanyCEO@outlook.com.
    - Cybercriminal creates a _look-alike domain_ and registers it for the sole purpose of delivering a BEC attack.

For example, instead of CEO@microsoft.com, the criminal sets up the domain micros0ft.com (number zero
replaces letter “o”) and sends email from it.
At its core, BEC is a social engineering scam. However, given the increase in available information regarding
these schemes and technical advancements in detection, the criminals behind these attacks are now spending
significant time, money, and effort to develop scams that are sufficiently sophisticated to victimize increasingly
savvy professionals.
...the criminals
behind these attacks
are now spending
significant time,
money, and effort
to develop scams
that are sufficiently
sophisticated to
victimize increasingly
savvy professionals.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 16
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY

Combination of BEC and credential phishing

We’re also seeing new attack kill chains that combine the two forms to deliver more sophisticated kill chains.
This attack can start with credential phishing. Once an account is compromised, the cybercriminal sets up
mailbox “forwarding” rules to monitor for financial transactions. Often these forwarding rules include keywords
such as “invoice,” “accounts receivable,” “funds,” “overdue,” “payroll,” or “IBAN” and send all relevant email to a
collection email account controlled and monitored by the cybercriminal. The cybercriminal then inserts a victim
impersonation email in the middle of a communication to misdirect and steal money or information.
While credential phishing and BEC continue to be the dominant variations, we also see attacks on a user’s identity
and credential being attempted via password reuse and password spray attacks using legacy email protocols
such as IMAP and SMTP.
Example of BEC where cybercriminal masquerades as CEO:
Depending on the level of sophistication of the attack, the cybercriminals might begin by monitoring the
CEO’s mail account for information such as relationships within the company, common phrases used, business
activities or travel, and especially information about payments or wire transfers. The cybercriminals might set
mailbox forwarding rules using keywords such as “invoice” or “accounts receivable” so that mail containing these
words is directed to a drop email account that they control and monitor.
The cybercriminals can then send mail requesting sensitive information or payments to be made, using links
or instructions to wire payment to a fraudulent bank account. Unsuspecting employees will comply with the
requests, believing the requests come from the CEO, and wire the payment to the cybercriminal’s account.
COVID-19-themed phishing luresTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
[Microsoft tracks thousands of email phishing ]
campaigns that cover millions of malicious messages
every week. Phishing campaigns are more than
just one targeted email at one targeted user. They
include potentially hundreds or thousands of
malicious emails targeting hundreds or thousands
of users, which is why they can be so effective. Of
the millions of targeted messages we see each day,
roughly 60,000 included COVID-19-related malicious
attachments or malicious URLs during April 2020.
We’ve seen many instances of attackers
impersonating established entities like the WHO,
Example of BEC where cybercriminal masquerades as CEO
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),
and the Department of Health to get into inboxes.
The trendy and pervasive Trickbot and Emotet
malware families are very active in rebranding their
lures to take advantage of the outbreak. As of June
30, 2020, we observed 79 threat variants globally
using COVID-19-themed lures.An infographic of a business email compromise example, where the cybercriminal masquerades as a CEO.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 17
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
What we’re seeing in Office 365 telemetryTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
[In 2019 we blocked over 13 billion malicious ]
and suspicious mails, out of which more than
1 billion were URL-based phishing threats (URLs set
up for the explicit purpose of launching a phishing
credential attack).³ These URLs were set up and
weaponized just in time for the attacks and had
no previous malicious reputation. We’re seeing
approximately 2 million such URL payloads being
created each month for credential harvesting,
orchestrated through thousands of phishing
campaigns.
What we’ve seen in Office 365 Advanced
Threat Protection detection in the past year:
As defenders, we continue to leverage this data
and telemetry to add enhanced detection and
intelligence capabilities in our Office 365 filtering
services, across Exchange Online Protection and
Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection, to help
secure our customers from these modern and
increasingly sophisticated attack variations.
Up until a few years ago,
cybercriminals focused their efforts
on malware attacks because they
provided the greatest ROI.
More recently, they’ve shifted their
focus to phishing attacks (~70%)
with the goal of harvesting
user credentials.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 18
Evolving techniques
Attack techniques have continued to evolve over
the past year, with notable variation in campaign
orchestration, URL payloads, and delivery
mechanism. Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
[Attack techniques]
• Increased usage of cloud services and
compromised infrastructure
As detection rates improve, we’re seeing
cybercriminals shift tactics and use cloud
services and compromised email and web
hosting infrastructures to orchestrate these
phishing campaigns. They aim to hide among
these reputable cloud services to avoid
detection. We’ve seen cybercriminals leverage
the most popular cloud services, email
sending services, and file sharing services to
launch attacks.
• Rapidly changing campaigns
We’re also seeing attack campaigns that are
being rapidly changed or morphed to avoid
detection. Morphing is being used across
sending domains, email addresses, content
templates, and URL domains. The goal is to
increase the combination of variations to evade
detections. In Office 365, we’re investing in
sophisticated campaign clustering intelligence
to enable security operations center (SOC)
teams to piece together these complex
campaigns from their fragments.
• Constant evolution in payload delivery
mechanisms
Over the last year, we saw interesting
techniques used for launching attacks. We
saw cybercriminals using poisoned search
results and legitimate URLs that linked to those
searches to deliver an attack. In another attack,
we saw cybercriminals use custom 404 pages to
host phishing payloads. We’ve also seen man
in-the-middle components used to present less
suspicious sites to the targets and captcha and
other evasion tools to hide detections.
3 Office 365 email gateway services across Exchange Online Protection and Advanced Threat Protection scan trillions of emails every year.Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection detections in the past year: 6 trillion messages scanned, approximately 13 billion malicious emails blocked, approximately 1.6 billion URL-based email phishing threats blocked, and 1.7 to 2 billion URL payloads being created each month, orchestrated through thousands of phishing campaigns.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
What we’re seeing in the Digital Crimes Unit
BEC-targeted industries
Given the time dedicated to research and post
compromise reconnaissance, cybercriminals know
which industries frequently wire large payments.
Based on our BEC investigations, the top 10 most
targeted industries for BEC attacks are accounting
and consulting, wholesale distribution, IT services,
real estate, education, health care, chemicals, high
tech and electronics, legal services, and outsourced
services. Cybercriminals also understand business
and payment cycles. As a result, DCU sees phishing
campaigns directed at specific industries and BEC
attacks timed to increase the ROI.
Top 10 targeted industries
for BEC attacks
Accounting & Consulting
Wholesale Distribution
IT Services
Real Estate
Education
Healthcare
Chemicals
High Tech & Electronics
Legal Services
Outsourced Services
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 19
The Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit is a team
of attorneys, investigators, data scientists,
engineers, analysts, and business professionals
who fight cybercrime globally through the
innovative application of technology, forensics,
civil actions, criminal referrals, and public and
private partnerships, while protecting the security
and privacy of our customers. Some of the DCU
observations about phishing and BEC are
shared here.
Email-facilitated cybercrime, such as credential
phishing for cloud services and BEC, continues to
expand in scope and complexity. According to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), as reported in
the 2019 Internet Crime Report, the Internet Crime
Complaint Center (IC3) received nearly a half a
million complaints and recorded over $3.5 billion in
losses to individual and business victims. The most
frequently reported complaints involved email
facilitated cybercrime and the most costly involved
BEC crimes. According to the IC3, BEC complaints
totaled 23,775 and accounted for losses of more
than $1.7 billion—representing nearly half of all
financial losses owing to cybercrime.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
Targeting the C-Suite
Although BEC scams have posed a significant
threat to businesses and individuals for many years,
these schemes continue to evolve in sophistication
and reach. Early BEC schemes tended to focus
on spoofing or impersonating emails from CEOs
or CFOs in an attempt to redirect wire transfers
to fraudulent accounts controlled by criminals.
Current BEC schemes include multiple phases
and usually start with reconnaissance of targeted
businesses prior to initiating an attack. Research
by cybercriminals during the initial phase results in
identifying specific accounts to target for account
compromise through techniques like credential
phishing. We’ve observed threat actors targeting
C-suite, accounting, and payroll employees in these
credential phishing attacks.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
Brand imitation continues to grow
Many credential phishing scams start by imitating
a well-known brand, enterprise cloud service, or
government entity. They require users to click on
a link that leads to a fake login site and lures them
into revealing their credentials. Another common
tactic is to spoof trademarks from trusted brands
in the phishing “lure.” It’s no surprise that well
known brands in banking, telecommunication,
and technology are frequently spoofed to deceive
recipients. Based on our Office 365 telemetry, the
top five spoofed brands are Microsoft, UPS, Amazon,
Apple, and Zoom. The websites that host the fake
login pages are composed of phishing kits deployed
by cybercriminals. For instance, there’s a “Microsoft”
branded phishing kit that “advises” recipients that
they’ve received a voicemail. Each phishing kit also
includes a “drop account,” or email account set up by
the criminal to receive credentials provided by the
unsuspecting victim. There are literally thousands of
different phishing kits sold on the dark web today.
DCU routinely analyzes these kits to develop insights
to thwart ongoing and future credential harvesting
and BEC campaigns targeting our customers.
Top 5 spoofed brands
Microsoft
UPS
Amazon
Apple
ZoomTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Our strategy
Given the enormity and complexity of the credential
phishing and BEC issue, the DCU, together with
security engineering teams across Microsoft, is
executing a strategy focused on four functions:
disrupt, deter, strengthen, and communicate.
Disrupt: The disrupt function is to analyze and map
the technical infrastructure utilized by cybercriminals
to launch BEC attacks. The infrastructure includes
phishing URLs, phishing kits, collection accounts,
drop accounts, and homoglyph domains. DCU takes
action to take down these aspects of the criminal
technical infrastructure through established notice
and take-down procedures or through judicial
intervention. Comprehensive disruption mitigates
the likelihood of successful BEC attacks and
increases the cost to cybercriminals, reducing the
ROI and incentive for cybercrime. The data produced
by disruption efforts informs allocation of resources
and other decisions to drive strategic decision
making to yield the highest impact.
Deter: The deter function focuses on identifying,
investigating, and developing cases for criminal
referral to law enforcement agencies throughout the
world, or for civil action as appropriate. Successful
enforcement actions have a powerful impact by
acting as both a specific and general deterrence
against future cybercrime.
Phishing URLs and phishing kits target the Microsoft brand. Drop email accounts refer to the
bad actor emails to which the stolen credentials (that are the result of successful phishing) are sent.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Prevention checklist:Graph of monthly numbers of phishing kits identified from August 2019 through July 2020, ranging from approximately 3 hundred to 13 hundred.Graph of monthly numbers of phishing URLs detected from August 2019 through July 2020, ranging from approximately 40 thousand to 100 thousand.Graph of monthly numbers of drop email accounts identified from August 2019 through July 2020, ranging from approximately 2 hundred to 14 hundred.Three-item prevention checklist.]
Strengthen: The evidence and insights gained from
DCU case development are shared with Microsoft
product security engineering teams and help inform
advancements in product security and technical
measures to defeat phishing and BEC.
Communicate: Finally, DCU communicates our
findings internally and externally to provide
guidance to customers on how to avoid falling
victim to BEC scams.
Learn more:
Top 10 ways to secure your dataTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 20
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Training employees to combat phishing
Every year, we provide more than 200,000 employees
and external staff with the experience of being
phished, along with prevention education and
reporting guidance. We then follow up with users who
were susceptible through quarterly simulations to help
them better identify key indicators in the future. In
addition, full-time employees are required to complete
annual and updated Security Foundations training.
These levers, combined with ongoing awareness
campaigns, are what drive positive user behavior.
Our employees have a solid awareness of
cybersecurity risk behaviors, but they aren’t
impervious to savvier tactics. This means our
prevention education programs must honor what
they already know by shifting away from general
awareness content and a one-size-fits-all approach
toward a more tailored and data-driven strategy.
This focused emphasis ensures employees remain
engaged with our content and training and that
we’re focused on experiences our employees will
likely encounter in our environment.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Our strategy has moved away from a ]
compliance-centric mindset and toward an adult
learning and skills-building model. This model
guarantees we build skills progressively over time
to help us reach the desired behavioral outcomes
and reduce risk. We use a series of micro-learnings,
or shorter online trainings, launched throughout
the year. This cadence allows employees to absorb
the information in manageable pieces, keeps our
employee engagement high, and helps solidify their
skills with knowledge reinforcement.
Annually we’re seeing
continual improvements in
employees’ abilities to
recognize and report phishing
as a result of employee
training at Microsoft.
Phishing is, of course, just one element of an overall
security awareness program. Organizations should
establish an awareness program that takes a holistic
approach, utilizing multiple levers with data and
telemetry at its center. Determining what areas of
behavior are driven by a lack of knowledge will best
be addressed with a “training first” approach. Areas
where employees have the knowledge but are still
not displaying desired security behaviors should
be addressed through other efforts, like targeted
campaigns, leadership messaging, outreach events,
and a closer look at process and procedures. This is
why telemetry—and knowing what to measure—is
so critical to the effectiveness of a program.
Employee phishing training moduleImage of phishing mail reporting icon in email home tab.
Learn more about phishing and business email
compromise:
Microsoft shares new threat intelligence and security
guidance during global crisis 2020/04/08
Protecting against coronavirus-themed phishing
attacks 2020/03/20
Protect yourself from phishing schemes and other
forms of online fraud
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 21
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Ransomware: A high-impact, human-driven threat
actors are using open-source tools like Cobalt Strike,
MimiKatz, ProcessHacker, and LaZagne to initiate the
attack that ultimately delivers ransomware payload.
The malware used in these incidents is usually
delivered through spear phishing or by exploiting
public-facing applications.
Human-operated ransomware
Human-operated ransomware is sometimes referred
to as “big game ransomware,” a term that implies
cybercriminals select specific networks for their
value proposition and then hunt for entry vectors.
This approach has been the exception, not the rule,
in most major ransomware attacks in the past year.
Cybercriminals perform massive wide-ranging sweeps
of the internet, searching for vulnerable entry points.
Or they enter networks via “commodity” trojans and
then “bank” this access for a time and purpose that’s
advantageous to them. For example, cybercriminals
used Dridex (a strain of banking malware that
leverages macros in Microsoft Office) to gain initial
access to networks, and then ransomed a subset of
them with the DoppelPaymer ransomware during the
2019 Christmas holiday season. As another example,
cybercriminals exploited vulnerabilities in VPN and
remote access devices to gain credentials, and then
saved their access to use for ransoming hospitals and
medical providers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In these attacks, the cybercriminals actively make
decisions as they go, controlling each attack step
based on the configurations they encounter in the
network. They decide which data to exfiltrate, which
Historically, cyberattacks were seen as a sophisticated set of actions targeting particular industries, which left
the remaining industries believing they were outside the scope of cybercrime, and without context about which
cybersecurity threats they should prepare for. Ransomware represents a major shift in this threat landscape,
and it’s made cyberattacks a very real and omnipresent danger for everyone. Encrypted and lost files and
threatening ransom notes have now become the top-of-mind fear for most executive teams.
INTERPOL issued a warning to organizations at the forefront
of the global response to the COVID-19 outbreak because they’ve also
become targets of ransomware attacks designed to lock them out
of their critical systems in an attempt to extort payments.
4
Ransomware’s economic model capitalizes on the misperception that a ransomware attack is solely a malware
incident, whereas in reality ransomware is a breach involving human adversaries attacking a network.
For many organizations, the cost to rebuild from scratch after a ransomware incident far outweighs the original
ransom demanded. With a limited understanding of the threat landscape and how ransomware operates, paying
the ransom seems like the better business decision to return to operations. However, the real damage is often
done when the cybercriminal exfiltrates files for release or sale, while leaving backdoors in the network for future
criminal activity—and these risks persist whether or not the ransom is paid.
Paying a ransom
doesn’t remove the attacker
The rise in popularity of ransomware—and its
subsequent rise in fame—has led to a cybersecurity
narrative that focuses on the intricacies of the
ransomware payload itself and the novelty of
encryption methods utilized. This makes it seem
as if the ransomware were appearing on networks
through characteristics of the malware and that
defenses should focus on preventing encryption.
However, this approach often fails to address the
root problem because it ignores the human actors
behind the threat, the specificity of their targets,
and that access to their networks might already be
compromised.
Understanding and fixing the fundamental security
issues that led to the compromise in the first place
should be a priority for ransomware victims. Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
Microsoft’s Detection and Response Team
(DART) engages with customers around the world,
helping to protect and harden against attacks before
they occur, as well as investigating and remediating
when an attack has occurred. DART has observed
that ransomware continues to be the most common
reason behind our incident response engagements
from October 2019 through July 2020. More threat
4 https://www.interpol.int/News-and-Events/News/2020/Cybercriminals-targeting-critical-healthcare-institutions-with-ransomware Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 22
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
persistence mechanisms to use for future access to
the network, and ultimately, they even decide which
ransomware payload to deliver. This scenario is far
from a commodity or automated threat. Microsoft
refers to this class of attacks as “human-operated
ransomware” to reflect the current threat landscape
more accurately.
Ransomware attacks are often described in terms
of their payload. However, Microsoft has observed
multiple ransomware payloads being deployed by
cybercriminals using the same infrastructure for
concurrent campaigns. The selection of which payload
and tools used was largely dependent on the terrain
the cybercriminals landed in; choices were based on
which security tools were present, whether the network
had good cybersecurity basics in place, and which data
the cybercriminals wanted to exfiltrate from
the network.
Payloads can also be varied by cybercriminals to avoid
attribution. If a certain ransomware has been reported
in the news and there’s heightened awareness of
it, switching to a different payload (and sometimes
just ransom note) can reduce the pressure on
cybercriminals and their concern about the possibility
of getting disrupted. In April 2020, Microsoft observed
a prolific ransomware criminal responsible for more
than 100 major incidents suddenly switch to using
the infamous WannaCrypt payload at the end of their
typical attack pattern, after attacking hospitals and
healthcare organizations during the COVID-19 crisis.
Ransomware criminals are intimately familiar with
systems management concepts and the struggles IT
departments face. Attack patterns demonstrate that
cybercriminals know when there will be change freezes,
such as holidays, that will impact an organization’s
ability to make changes (such as patching) to harden
their networks. They’re aware of when there are
business needs that will make businesses more willing
to pay ransoms than take downtime, such as during
billing cycles in the health, finance, and legal industries.
Targeting networks where critical work was needed
during the COVID-19 pandemic, and also specifically
attacking remote access devices during a time when
unprecedented numbers of people were working
remotely, are examples of this level of knowledge.
Once inside a network, this proficiency in
understanding protective and detective controls
continues to contribute to the success of the
cybercriminals. Through reconnaissance they’ll select
machines with no or poorly configured antivirus
software to perform most of their actions, modifying
their techniques if they sense they might be detected.
Unfortunately, there are also numerous examples of
situations where cybercriminals simply performed
their attacks as they wished, with poor cyber hygiene
leaving no blocking controls in their way. This can
happen in spite of multiple stages of their attack
causing detections in antivirus and endpoint detection
and response products, signifying cybercriminals’
understanding of the challenges modern IT
departments and SOCs face in rapidly triaging and
responding to fast-paced attackers.
In some instances,
cybercriminals went
from initial entry to
ransoming the entire
network in less than
45 minutes.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 23
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Ransomware operations attack pattern detail observed by Microsoft Threat Protection
intelligence in early 2020. Payloads might vary, but mitigations apply across all varieties.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Two steps to follow: Diagram of ransomware operations attack patterns.Infographic of steps to follow for protecting against ransomware. Know your perimeter and practice credential hygiene.]
While human-operated ransomware campaigns vary in
their tools and ultimate choice of ransomware payload,
all of them need to operate in a similar manner to
effectively enter a network and move laterally to
achieve their goals. While initial entry vectors can
vary, such as through unpatched vulnerabilities, the
biggest factor leading to success in moving through
multiple systems and deploying ransomware is
the cybercriminal’s ability to gain access to highly
privileged account credentials. Cybercriminals rely on
off-the-shelf tools used for systems administration
or security testing and built-in tools to move from
machine to machine, but they need administrative
credentials, such as those of a domain administrator,
to gain access. To deploy ransomware across an
entire organization, cybercriminals must capture a
credential and a system with the rights to do this.
Domain administrator accounts are often used for
their ability to utilize Active Directory policies and file
shares intended for software distribution to maliciously
deploy devastating ransomware payloads.
Over 70% of human-operated
ransomware attacks in the past
year originated with Remote
Desktop Protocol (RDP)
By narrowing the focus for IT departments to the
overlapping techniques used by attackers regardless
of which payload they deploy, defensive strategies can
be moved from a reactionary detection-only option,
which changes with every variation in ransomware,
to simple steps that provide significant ROI across
multiple classes of attacks.
Learn more:
Human-operated ransomware attacks: A preventable
disaster 2020/03/05
Ransomware groups continue to target healthcare,
critical services; here’s how to reduce risk 2020/04/28
brute force.
5
5 https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/fbi-says-140-million-paid-to-ransomware-offers-defense-tips/ Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 24
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Malware: The evolution of banking trojans
Trickbot banking trojan prevalence, April 2020 Global map depicting Trickbot banking trojan prevalence.
For busy security operations centers, keeping up
with the volume of alerts and data coming in from
various security tools and monitoring platforms
can be difficult. This so-called alert fatigue is a
huge factor in organizations not being able to
respond quickly and accurately enough to security
incidents—a factor cybercriminals are acutely
aware of. When faced with deciding which alerts
to prioritize, many SOCs will prioritize threats
perceived as targeted (such as nation state–related
threats) over those which are “commodity,” a term
used to describe malware that isn’t customized or
intended for use on specific targeted networks.
This assumption that commodity threats are less
impactful to a business, combined with the security
industry’s naming convention for threats, leads to
confusion that cybercriminals of all skill sets will
use to their advantage. From nation state attackers
utilizing off-the-shelf tools intended for Red Teams
to major criminal operations pivoting their behaviors
in well-known malware families, the desire to blend
in and not be remediated has turned some of these
assumptions upside down. Nowhere was this more
impactful in the past year than in the category of
banking trojans.
Judging malware by its family or detection name is a
lot like judging a book by its cover—it might not tell
you what the malware is capable of. Banking trojans,
intended to steal credentials from online banking
and finance sites, have been a consistent threat in
the landscape over the past decade. The nature
of many banking trojans was always modular and
extensible, with additional modules and capabilities
deployed or downloaded after the initial infection. In
the past few years, the potential of this capability for
attacks against enterprise environments, where the
banking trojan malware might not be immediately
triaged or removed, was realized with devastating
success by several major banking trojans. The two
banking trojans most infamous for adopting this
new model are Emotet and Trickbot.
Originally intended to steal banking data,
components in Emotet and Trickbot reporting IP
addresses and DNS ranges back to the operators
revealed just how many major networks their
malware was installed on and checking in from. In
early efforts to capitalize on this network access,
team-ups of malware payloads were seen. Examples
include Emotet’s leading to Trickbot infections that
utilized the Eternal Blue vulnerability for lateral
movement and Emotet’s downloading second
stage trojans with credential theft capabilities such
as Qakbot or IceID. This piggybacking has led to
disastrous results for organizations, as these
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 25
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
second-stage malware payloads used brute force
attacks against Active Directory passwords, causing
massive downtime and network outages. Trickbot
reached the most devastating stage in this evolution
in 2019 when the operators began to utilize the
Trickbot install base to deploy the Ryuk ransomware.
Taking advantage of Trickbot’s prevalent install base,
operators select networks that seem valuable and
advantageous to them at the time: the ones that
will pay a high ransom or have interesting data.
They then use the Trickbot implant to download
additional tools, such as Cobalt Strike, and transform
into a human-operated ransomware campaign.
Banking trojans have succeeded by being
underestimated and by using their breadth of
infections to their advantage, selectively targeting
networks for follow-on ransomware, data
exfiltration, or sale of access on the dark web.
Organizations can help with alert fatigue and
bombardments of similar threats by focusing on the
behaviors of the malware and delivery mechanisms,
and by mitigating the issues that allow entry into
their networks. Most banking trojans are delivered
via email attachments and especially via macro
enabled Microsoft Office documents.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Simple solutions for blocking malicious macros, ]
such as using trusted locations, can dramatically
decrease an attack surface and reduce the risk of
dangerous post-infection activities.
Learn more:
New action to disrupt world’s largest online criminal
network 2020/03/10
An inside look at the global battle with botnets
2020/07/24Flowchart of Trickbot being delivered through email, and ending with ransomware payload being delivered.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 26
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
Promoting trusted information
What is the role of the Digital Crimes Unit at
Microsoft?
Our Digital Crimes Unit is also analyzing data
regarding cyberthreats associated with malware,
phishing, and fraud. Between late March and the
beginning of July 2020, we’ve reported 13,971
potentially malicious COVID-19-themed domains
and 23,123 URLs to the proper authorities so that
they can be taken down and, where possible, the
individuals behind them prosecuted.
Who else is Microsoft working with?
Teams within Microsoft Research are collaborating
closely with Professor Jacob Shapiro, director of the
Empirical Studies of Conflict Project at Princeton
University, to characterize the types and extent
of misinformation and disinformation narratives
online related to COVID-19. This work helps our
researchers, product teams, and industry partners
understand the global information environment our
customers are exposed to.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 27
There’s so much COVID-19 commentary circulating
online that even those with the keenest eye for
misinformation can sometimes find it tricky to
separate fact from fiction.
That’s why Microsoft and LinkedIn, along with other
technology companies are working to keep millions
of people connected while also combating fraud and
misinformation about the pandemic. We’re giving
prominence to authoritative content across platforms
and coordinating with government healthcare
agencies around the world to share critical updates.
Learn more: Data, supplies, community: How
Microsoft is supporting efforts to combat COVID-19
How is Microsoft highlighting content from
credible sources?
We’re taking new steps across our services,
including Bing, LinkedIn, Microsoft News, and
Microsoft Advertising. On Microsoft News and
LinkedIn, we’re creating curated resources based
on official guidance from organizations such as the
WHO and the CDC. We’re also aggregating data
on case locations,⁶ infection prevention, and more
from authoritative sources and presenting it in an
accessible, easy-to-use way across Microsoft News⁷
and Bing.⁸
Bing users in multiple countries can access
reliable health information through public service
announcements for some COVID-19 queries. They
can also find reliable information in answers near
the top of search results pages and in sidebar
windows. In the United States—and soon in other
countries—information is provided on testing
protocols and locations for anyone who thinks they
have symptoms of the virus.
Bing is also prioritizing trusted news sources and
piloting algorithmic defenses to help promote
reliable information about COVID-19.
On LinkedIn, a global team of more than 65
experienced journalists is curating news and
perspectives about the coronavirus pandemic
from trusted sources. The team is spotlighting this
coverage in a “Special Report: Coronavirus” box on
the LinkedIn homepage, with relevant and accurate
stories. They’re also reaching audiences through the
Daily Rundown news summary, which reaches 46
million people, in 96 countries, in nine languages.
When users search for coronavirus-related terms or
hashtags, they’ll see trusted information modules at
the top of the results page.
How is Microsoft helping to surface credible
reporting on the crisis?
Microsoft News has COVID-19 information hubs in
39 markets across the globe. An experienced team
edits content from more than 4,500 trusted news
brands, including The New York Times, Reuters, and
the Wall Street Journal . These hubs also contain links
to official tools and information from sources like
the WHO and the CDC. When people search Bing
for “coronavirus updates” and related queries, it will
point to these hubs in some news answers.
Learn more: Microsoft to join White House-led
consortium to fight COVID-19
What measures is Microsoft taking in relation to
advertising?
Microsoft’s Sensitive Advertising policy and
LinkedIn’s Advertising policies prohibit ads that
capitalize on the pandemic and company pages
that improperly sell medical supplies and solutions.
These policies allow Microsoft and LinkedIn to
remove or limit advertising and company pages in
response to a sensitive tragedy, disaster, death, or
high-profile news event and are being applied to
block ads related directly to COVID-19. In certain
instances, advertising related to the pandemic
will only be allowed from trusted sources. Any
advertising that exploits the coronavirus crisis for
commercial gain, spreads misinformation, or might
pose a danger to users’ safety is prohibited.
6 https://blogs.bing.com/search/march-2020/Stay-informed-on-the-coronavirus-pandemic-with-Bing-and-Microsoft-News
7 https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news
8 https://www.bing.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY