Avenger
Downloader Avenger has a number of variants as TICK appears to have developed different versions
depending on the targets. For instance, some variants use the autorun function while the others go
into in sleep mode for 300,000 milliseconds after system infection. Further analysis revealed that this
downloader’s routine had three stages:

First stage: Collects from the host volume information, antivirus product, and OS bits version. It

sends all the data back to the C&C server to verify if the host exists via the phone home beacon. This
ensures that it will only compromise the intended target.

Second stage: If it exists in the C&C server, Avenger collects the victim’s information from the system

by browsing through the folders such as the tasklist, files under Program Files and desktop, and
domain information.

Third stage: If it doesn’t exist in the C&C server, Avenger will download an image embedded with

malware (via steganography) and extract a backdoor.
29 | Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing Classified Data
The first stage will set CPUID and volume information as a value of the URI parameter id= and get the
antivirus product type. The AV product type is set as a number, which indicates the installed antivirus
product as a value of the URI parameter group= . This function is the same as ABK, and will lead to
the final parameter indicating the OS version. If the infected computer is running on a 32-bit operating
system, the number will be 3. Otherwise, the number will be 6.
Figure 39. Avenger’s first stage collects information
If the sent information exists and matches the list in the C&C, Avenger will collect the victim’s host
information, write it into result.txt, and encrypt it with XOR into log.dat . The encrypted file will then be sent
back to the C&C server.
Figure 40. Avenger’s second stage writes the collected information to a .txt file
30 | Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing Classified Data
Figure 41. Avenger’s third stage sends the encrypted file to the C&C
If the information is not in the C&C list, Avenger will download the steganography photo and extract the
backdoor. The steganography algorithm shows that TICK further developed the code to make it even
more sophisticated than the algorithm used by build_downer.
Figure 42. A backdoor found in a steganography image
31 | Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing Classified Data
Figure 43. Upgraded steganography technique
Online scanning revealed a newer version of the Avenger downloader with a clearer code structure and
internal IP testing URL, as well as a newer version of PDB strings showing Avenger2 . The rest of its
components had very minimal differences with the previous version.
C:\Users\Frank\Documents\Visual Studio 2010\Projects\Avenger2\Release\Avenger2.pdb
Figure 44. Avenger with internal URL
Sample Indicator of Compromise
51a41a16d18c801aea558e051d6c7db8d7f820754d455b1061a9213e05cb1c14 TROJ_AVGR.ZAGG