Notable Activity
In addition to the changing banking Trojan landscape, ransomware has also
undergone a major shift throughout 2014 — in particular becoming much
more professionally organized. CryptoLocker’s success made it the first
ransomware variant to make it into prime-time news. Its success was, in part,
due to its wide distribution, acting as an alternative revenue stream for the
operators of GOZ. When GOZ was dismantled, CryptoLocker was also taken
down, but now in its place many other copycat ransomware families are
trying to replicate its success, such as CryptoWall and TorrentLocker.
So what is to be expected for the cybercrime landscape of 2015?
CrowdStrike predicts the continuation of development in banking Trojans
such as Dyreza and Dridex. As recently as November, Dridex has added
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) functionality to its arsenal in an attempt to become
more resilient, and it is likely changes in its capability will continue. In
addition, it is likely new threats will follow the business model of using of
phishing lures delivered by spambots using a range of first-stage loaders to
keep their primary payloads under the radar. Ransomware will continue to
become more of a threat as continued copycats try to develop the
next market leader.
Gameover Zeus Takedown
Gameover Zeus (GOZ) was a complex P2P botnet that has been one of the
most prevalent cyber threats for almost four years. It was forked off the
infamous Zeus Trojan, the source code of which was leaked in spring 2011 –
just a few months before the appearance of the first GOZ version. GOZ was
largely used for banking fraud and the delivery of other malware, such as the
CryptoLocker ransomware Trojan, and is believed to have caused more than
$100 million in financial damage.
The GOZ botnet was long believed to be resistant to any takedown attempts
because of its complex, tiered infrastructure: Infected machines form a
decentralized P2P network, with some peers acting as proxy nodes (brokers
between bots and the next tier). This upper tier, again, consists of proxies
that conceal the location of the actual back end. The use of P2P technology
eliminates static rendezvous points and allows the botnet operators to
announce new centralized components at any time, which makes any
14