1.1 Sample Statistics
Our analysis covers a collected set of 27 32-bit Portable
Executable (PE) files for the Microsoft Windows operating
〗
〗
system. All 27 samples are device drivers, designed to work
at the kernel level.
Based on the code structure of the samples, they can be
roughly categorized into two groups:
y y “Pure” — does not feature any extra code beside the
malicious one
y y “Augmented” — the malware code is present in
combination with code from a legitimate device driver
Some “augmented” samples seem to be derived from
Microsoft device drivers, with modifications to drive the
execution towards the malicious code.
Of the 27 samples, 20 of them (or 74%) are “pure”; only 7
samples can be classified as are “augmented”. Despite the
small amount of samples at our disposal, it is possible to
speculate that the disproportion between the number of
“pure” and “augmented” samples reflects the additional
complexity associated with creating the “augmented”
samples. Another possibility is that “augmented” samples
represent a particular stage of development or have
served a particular purpose, and for this reason they are
fewer in number; this suspicion might be confirmed by the
compilation date as extracted from the samples’ PE header.
Analysis of the resources also shows that the “augmented”
binaries are masked as binaries for Windows NT 5.2.3790,
also known as Windows Server 2003. This hints to the
fact that the attackers might have used these samples to
specifically target machines running this particular version
of Windows.
It also interesting to consider the filenames of the samples
as they were observed in the wild or during submission for
analysis. In 12 cases (44% of samples), the decoy names used
by the files was “usbclass.sys”. [ [1]] This particular name was
used only for “pure” samples (though not all such samples
used this name). It is our opinion that this particular name
was selected to allay any suspicions on the victim’s part, if
the file was discovered.
Following detailed analysis of a selected reference sample
(presented in later sections), we were able to group samples
based on differences in their code from the analysed
sample. We define the distance function between our
reference sample and other samples as:
d(sample)□:∶= |〖functions〗 sample reference ∩ functions sample |
|〖functions 〗 sample 〗 reference |
Using this metric, we determined there were three
categories among the 27 samples at our disposal. A set of 13
samples out of 26 [[2]], which was assigned the label “variant
1”, alongside the reference sample, were extremely close
y to the reference, with distances between 89% and 100%. 7
out of 26 samples (labelled “variant #2”) were very distant
y from the reference sample [[3]], with a consistent distance
of 2.63%. Finally, the last 7 samples (labelled “variant #3”)
showed distances between 41% and 53% from the reference
sample. While samples belonging to “variant #2” or “variant
3” were not analyzed in detail, preliminary analysis shows
that they all possess the same functionalities, but their code
is notably different at the function level.
A final observation is that all the “augmented” samples
belong to “variant #1”, according to this classification
method. The full data matrix regarding the samples is
provided in Appendix A for the interested reader.