Know the Adversary
a defunct malware known by the anti-virus name Dreammon (or
DreamClick). This malware possesses a feature set more in line
with adclicker malware rather than targeted activity. As adclicker
malware is more common with criminal adversaries, it has been
postulated that if the same adversary behind Dreammon is
behind Pirpi, this adversary’s initial motives may have been
financially driven.
Overview of Russian Threat Actors
Although the Chinese calendar predicted that 2014 would be the
Year of the Horse, in many respects 2014 has been the Year of the
Bear in the cyber realm, with several high-profile Russia-based
actors receiving public attention. The reported activity has included
actors tracked by CrowdStrike as ENERGETIC BEAR, FANCY BEAR,
and VENOMOUS BEAR, as well as other sets such as Sandworm,
which uses the Black Energy toolset in targeted attacks, in contrast
to its normal use as criminal malware. CrowdStrike also tracks
other adversaries attributed to Russia under cryptonyms such
as BERSERK BEAR, BOULDER BEAR, and the financial-crime
motivated actor MAGNETIC SPIDER.
VENOMOUS BEAR, also known as Snake, Turla, and Oroborous, uses
a set of implants that culminates in a sophisticated Windows-based
rootkit that can leverage an encrypted Virtual File System (VFS) as
a staging area for tools to deploy and data prepared for exfiltration.
It also includes implants for other platforms such as Linux that
can be used to operate command-and-control infrastructure.
External reporting indicates a targeting bias toward entities in the
government sector, along with the use of zero-day exploits. These
TTPs, along with the maturity of the attacker’s toolset, indicate that
this is a highly sophisticated adversary.
FANCY BEAR is CrowdStrike’s name for an adversary also known
as Sofacy. Although the tools used by this actor are not as complex
as those employed by VENOMOUS BEAR, they share a common
targeting focus on government and military entities, with a particular
57