5.1. Egypt background: malware, surveillance, and censorship
Seven years after the 2011 demonstrations in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, Egyptian President
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has escalated a violent crackdown against opposition and dissent.
Under the guise of combating terrorism, particularly following a series of ISIS church
bombings, the el-Sisi government has engaged in mass arrests, forced disappearances,
and torture against targeted journalists, human rights defenders, and protesters. The
brief window opened during the Arab Spring period has closed as el-Sisi has sought to
strengthen his rule and silence critics of his regime.
The Egyptian government has been widely criticized for its human rights abuses and
corruption. A May 2017 law ratified by el-Sisi was criticized as stifling dissent as it
imposes new restrictions on foreign NGOs, subjects groups to additional security
monitoring and financial reporting requirements, and imposes heavy fines on groups who
publish without government permission. Reporters Without Borders has ranked Egypt
161st out of the 180 countries it included in its 2017 World Press Freedom Index. More
than 15,000 civilians have been tried in military courts since 2014, and more than 800
people have been sentenced to death since 2013. Corruption is also endemic across all of
society in Egypt, in spite of numerous attempts by various government agencies to reign it
in. Transparency International ranked Egypt 108 out of 176 countries in its 2016
Corruption Perceptions Index.
Egypt adopted a new constitution following a January 2014 referendum. While the
revised constitution does contain provisions protecting freedom of expression, access to
information, and freedom of the press, it also contains exceptions which allow censorship
during periods of war or state of emergency. Prior to the 2011 Arab Spring, Egypt had
generally been under a continuous state of emergency since 1958. Following a short
reprieve in 2012, successive Egyptian governments have repeatedly reimposed emergency
rule, and most recently in January 2018. Such declarations expand the arrest and
detention powers of security forces and permit media censorship. El-Sisi has also targeted
the country’s judiciary by ratifying a bill which empowers him to select the courts’ chief
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 19/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
justices. Several potential political candidates have been arrested or face intimidation and
physical violence in advance of the March 2018 Presidential election. The election, which
is virtually guaranteed to see el-Sisi elected to a second term, has been widely criticized as
undemocratic.
Telecommunications surveillance is facilitated under the 2003 Telecommunications
Regulation Law. This law compels telecommunications operators to provide technical
capacity for the military and national security entities to “exercise their powers within the
law” as well as prohibiting the use of “telecommunication services encryption equipment”
without written authorization from entities including the armed forces. Article 73 of the
Telecommunications Law prohibits telecommunications providers from interfering with
any part of a telecommunication message.
The ongoing crackdown against critical voices has extended to online censorship. The
pre-Arab Spring Mubarak government did not engage in widespread online censorship.
However reports of censorship have increased in recent years. Testing conducted by the
OONI project in 2016 confirmed reporting that Qatari-owned news website The New
Arab and its Arabic language version were blocked.
Censorship in Egypt has also reflected regional concerns. Egypt, and four other Arab
states including Saudi Arabia, have accused Qatar of supporting terrorism and
destabilizing the region. In response, Egypt was reported in May 2017 to have blocked
access to 21 news websites for “supporting terrorism and spreading false news”. The
blocked websites included Qatar-based Al Jazeera as well as prominent local independent
news website Mada Masr. In September 2017 Egypt blocked the Human Rights Watch
website one day after HRW released a report documenting the use of torture by the
country’s security services.
The use of surveillance technology by the Egyptian government has been widely
documented, particularly the technologies operated by an obscure intelligence agency
called the Technical Research Department (TRD). A 2015 Citizen Lab report identified
that a server used in the operation of FinFisher surveillance malware was present on
networks operated by the TRD. Similarly, Privacy International obtained documents
leaked from Nokia Siemens Networks which showed that the company sold an
interception management system and monitoring centre to the TRD. The leaked emails
from surveillance company Hacking Team indicated that the company had sold its
surveillance malware system to the TRD for more than 1 million Euros.
A 2017 Citizen Lab report documented a large-scale phishing campaign against Egyptian
civil society members. Virtually all of the targets identified in this report were implicated
in Case 173, a legal case brought by the Egyptian government against domestic NGOs. In
this case, the government has accused NGOs of improperly receiving foreign funding and
engaging in prohibited activities.