Platform architecture
Attor consists of a dispatcher and loadable plugins, all of which are implemented as dynamic-link
libraries (DLLs). The first step of a compromise comprises dropping all these components on disk
and loading the dispatcher DLL.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/10/10/eset-discovers-attor-spy-platform/ 3/14
10/11/2019 ESET discovers Attor, a spy platform with curious GSM fingerprinting | WeLiveSecurity
The dispatcher is the core of the whole platform – it serves as a management and
synchronization unit for the additional plugins. On each system start, it injects itself into almost all
running processes and loads all available plugins within each of these processes. As an
exception, Attor avoids injection into some system and security‑product‑related processes.
All plugins rely on the dispatcher for implementing basic functionalities. Rather than calling
Windows API functions directly, the plugins use a reference to a helper function (a function
dispatcher) implemented by the dispatcher DLL. A reference to the function dispatcher is passed
to the plugins when they are loaded. Because the plugins are injected in the same process as the
dispatcher itself, they share the same address space and are thus able to call this function
directly.
Calls to the function dispatcher take as their arguments the function type and its numerical
identifier. This design makes it harder to analyze individual components of Attor without having
access to the dispatcher, as it translates the specified identifier to a meaningful function that is
then executed.
Figure 3 illustrates a part of one plugin, calling the function dispatcher on several occasions. In
the disassembly on the right, we have replaced the numeric identifiers (that we recovered by
reverse-engineering the dispatcher) with descriptive names. Refer to our white paper for a full
analysis of the dispatcher’s interface.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/10/10/eset-discovers-attor-spy-platform/ 4/14
10/11/2019 ESET discovers Attor, a spy platform with curious GSM fingerprinting | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 3. Additional plugins use functions implemented in the main module, by calling the function dispatcher (dubbed
helperFnc here)
Furthermore, the dispatcher is the only component of the platform that has access to the
configuration data. Attor’s plugins retrieve their configuration data from the dispatcher via the
interface, as described above.