RTF is a flexible text format that was introduced by Microsoft a long time ago. The flexibility of embedding any object type within makes RTF files vulnerable to many OLE objects related vulnerabilities. Several threat actors, especially Chinese ones, use RTF files in their campaigns. Among them are the Calypso group and Winnti threat actors who have used RTF files in their COVID-19 campaigns. Calypso Group
Calypso is a Chinese APT group that has been
performing cyber espionage operations since 2016 [18, 19] .
The group has targeted governments in Brazil, India,
Kazakhstan, Russia, Thailand, Belarus, Mongolia, and
Turkey.
In the new campaign, called Vicious Panada, Calypso
Group has targeted the Mongolian public sector by
sending malicious RTF files to victims disguised as
COVID-19 related documents [20] .
The RTF file has been weaponized with the Royal Road
RTF weaponization tool. The tool is known to be used by
several Chinese actors and has the capability to embed
objects within RTF files that exploit vulnerabilities
related to Microsoft Equation Editor. (CVE-2017-11882,
CVE-2018-0798, CVE-2018-0802) [21] .
In this campaign, the RTF file exploits the equation
editor vulnerability to drop “intel.wll” into the “AppData/
Roaming/Microsoft/Word/STARTUP/” directory (Figure
27). “intel.wll” is then executed each time the Microsoft
Word application is launched. This DLL downloads
additional payloads, including a backdoor with several
capabilities, such as taking screen shots, executing new
processes, or collecting system information.
Figure 28: RTF file embedding k.dll
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 20
Looking at the Equation Native Stream, we can see that
this DLL is made persistent by using the run registry key
“Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run” (Figure 29).
In this case, “k.dll” is executed each time the system
reboots.
Figure 29: Equation native stream
A code similarity check between “k.dll” and “intel.wll”
showed that both have similar functionalities and the
same exported function named “Engdic”.