Chinese-speaking activity
Earlier this year, we discovered an active and previously unknown stealthy implant dubbed
Moriya in the networks of regional inter-governmental organizations in Asia and Africa. This
tool was used to control public facing servers in those organizations by establishing a covert
channel with a C2 server and passing shell commands and their outputs to the C2. This
capability is facilitated using a Windows kernel mode driver. Use of the tool is part of an
ongoing campaign that we have named TunnelSnake. The rootkit was detected on the
targeted machines in May, with activity dating back as early as November 2019, persisting in
networks for several months following the initial infection. We found another tool showing
significant code overlaps with this rootkit, suggesting that the developers have been active
since at least 2018. Since neither rootkit nor other lateral movement tools that accompanied
it during the campaign relied on hard-coded C2 servers, we could gain only partial visibility
into the attacker’s infrastructure. That said, the bulk of detected tools, apart from Moriya,
consisted of both proprietary and well-known pieces of malware that were previously used by
Chinese-speaking threat actors, giving a clue to the attacker’s origin.
PlugX continues to be effectively and heavily used across Southeast and East Asia, and also
Africa, with some minimal use in Europe. The PlugX codebase has been in use by multiple
Chinese-speaking APT groups, including HoneyMyte, Cycldek and LuckyMouse.
Government agencies, NGOs and IT service organizations seem to be consistent targets.
While the new USB spreading capability is opportunistically pushing the malware
throughout networks, compromised MSSPs/IT service organizations appear to be a potential
vector of targeted delivery, with CobaltStrike installer packages pushed to multiple systems
for initial PlugX installation. Based on our visibility, the majority of activity in the last
quarter appears to be in Mongolia, Vietnam and Myanmar. The number of systems in these
countries dealing with PlugX in 2020 is at the very least in the thousands.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ 3/8
11/4/2020 APT trends report Q3 2020 | Securelist
We discovered an ongoing campaign, dating back to May, utilizing a new version of the
Okrum backdoor, attributed to Ke3chang. This updated version of Okrum uses an
Authenticode-signed Windows Defender binary using a unique side-loading technique. The
attackers used steganography to conceal the main payload in the Defender executable while
keeping its digital signature valid, reducing the chance of detection. We haven’t previously
seen this method being used in the wild for malicious purposes. We have observed one
affected victim, a telecoms company located in Europe.
On September 16, the US Department of Justice released three indictments associated with
hackers allegedly connected with APT41 and other intrusion sets tracked as Barium, Winnti,
Wicked Panda and Wicked Spider. In addition, two Malaysian nationals were also arrested
on September 14, in Sitiawan (Malaysia), for “conspiring to profit from computer intrusions
targeting the video game industry”, following cooperation between the US DoJ and the
Malaysian government, including the Attorney General’s Chambers of Malaysia and the
Royal Malaysia Police. The first indictment alleges that the defendants set up an elite “white
hat” network security company, called Chengdu 404 Network Technology Co, Ltd. (aka
Chengdu Si Lingsi Network Technology Co., Ltd.), and under its guise, engaged in computer
intrusions targeting hundreds of companies around the world. According to the indictment,
they “carried out their hacking using specialized malware, such as malware that cybersecurity experts named ‘PlugX/Fast’, ‘Winnti/Pasteboy’, ‘Shadowpad’, ‘Barlaiy/Poison Plug’
and ‘Crosswalk/ProxIP'”. The indictments contain several indirect IoCs, which allowed us to
connect these intrusions to Operation ShadowPad and Operation ShadowHammer, two
massive supply-chain attacks discovered and investigated by Kaspersky in recent years.