~~Disinformation~~ ~~as an emerging~~ ~~threat~~
Disinformation has been a steadily evolving method
of information warfare, most recognized in the
United States after the 2016 election, but well
known globally since the Cold War. This approach
is high-stakes and effective for creating social
discord, increasing polarization, and in some cases,
influencing the outcome of elections. Nation state
actors with geopolitical aspirations, proponents
of radical ideologies, violent extremists, and
economically motivated enterprises can manipulate
online narratives with easy and unprecedented reach
and scale, creating significant societal impact.
Mapping the problem
Note 109 A promising step forward on disinformation – Microsoft On the Issues Note 110 Despite its popular usage, this term technically refers to a specific type of
ML (a process by which exposure to large and diverse amounts of data allows a computer to improve its own performance) that uses layered neural
networks (computer processors connected in a way that mimics how information travels in the human brain) to enhance the accuracy of the ML
algorithms. Deepfakes use two algorithms: the first algorithm creates a video, and the second one tries to determine if the video is real or not. If the
second algorithm can tell that the video is fake, the first algorithm tries again, until the resulting image looks sufficiently believable.
111
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
i
i i
Deepfakes
Deepfakes are photos, videos, or audio files
manipulated by AI in hard-to-detect ways. The
weaponization of deepfakes can have a massive
impact on an economy and national security.
By eroding public trust in the media, deepfakes
undermine the credibility of journalism. As this
credibility is eroded, deepfakes also give rise to the
i
“Liar’s Dividend” phenomenon. In an environment
where it is unclear what is real and what is fake, it
becomes easier to discount any inconvenient or
i i
unpopular truth as fake. As an example, deepfakes
could enable a public figure to claim that their real
actions are just a fake.
The proliferation of deepfake technology can directly
harm individuals. Deepfake pornography has been
used to objectify and victimize people without
consent, especially women or those who identify
as women. This revenge pornography is now a
significant problem: over 96% of deepfake videos
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
In the attention economy, websites and platforms
earn revenue from the time users spend on
them. This advertisement-based business model
incentivizes recommendation engines and curated
timelines with clickbait headlines and scandalous
news, opinions, and falsehoods. The timeline
curation algorithms give rise to creating echo
chambers, filter bubbles, and unintentional tribalism.
~~Because of echo chambers and flter bubbles,~~ i
~~users predominantly see the content that matches~~
~~their beliefs, biases, and desires, reinforcing their~~
~~confrmation bias and f~~ i i ~~ltering out opposing~~
~~viewpoints.~~ Nefarious actors misuse the attention
economy and take advantage of the advertisement
business model to manipulate social media
narratives to create divisions and sow discord.
“Filter bubbles” and “echo chamber”
Parallels in cybersecurity
Cyberattacks compromise the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of digital systems. The
difference between a disinformation attack and
a cyberattack is the target; disinformation is also
an attack and compromise of our cognitive being.
While cyberattacks are exploits of computer
infrastructure to create disruption, disinformation
i
exploits human infrastructure (our inherent
cognitive biases, logical fallacies, and psychological
vulnerabilities), and the attack compromises logical,
i i
analytical, and critical thinking.
We can therefore think of the threat posed by
disinformation and computational propaganda
as cognitive hacking . A cognitive hack attempts
to change the target audience’s thoughts and
actions using disinformation to manipulate the way
they perceive reality. Nefarious actors accomplish
cognitive hacks utilizing various techniques,
including manipulating, mis-contextualizing, or
misappropriating information. Ultimately, these
hacks can create social discord, exacerbate
polarization, influence election outcomes, disrupt
democratic principles, enable financial fraud, and
threaten life and property.
Both disinformation and cyberattacks are used by an
adversary to achieve disruption. A well-coordinated
disinformation campaign can fill the broadcast
and social channels with false information and
i noise, creating narratives that play with emotions
and drown out the true narrative. This maneuver
is similar to a distributed denial of service (DDoS)
i i attack that floods the target services and networks
with superfluous requests to connect and overload
the system to prevent legitimate requests from
being fulfilled. Disinformation can also be used
for social engineering threats on a mass scale. Like
phishing attacks to compromise IT systems for
data extraction, disinformation campaigns play on
emotions, giving cybercriminals another feasible
method for scams. Deepfake videos and audio
can trick employees into releasing or sharing login
credentials, which can then be used to gain access
to an enterprise’s network.
i
i i
i
i i
In the attention economy, users are increasingly exposed only to information that matches
their preferences (blue areas in the graphic). Filter bubbles represent algorithms that choose
content based on the user’s previous search histories and other online activity.
i
i i
112
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
f
are nonconsensual pornography. [ Note 111 ] A person’s
reputation can be damaged beyond repair by a
single deepfake video posted to social media.
Criminals can and will take advantage of AI and
deepfakes to increase the effectiveness of scams
and other nefarious activities. We have seen recent
examples of business [ Note 112 ] and romance [ Note 113 ] fraud using
audio deepfakes. Even after effectively debunking
the deepfake, the damage remains. Deepfakes
also present direct threats to society. Nefarious
nation state actors work around the clock to spread f
disinformation campaigns, which increasingly
include deepfakes, to create ideological conflicts in
democracies around the world. They have effectively
used disinformation and empowered domestic
actors to disrupt elections and undermine efforts
to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Technology
innovations like replacing video codecs with deep
neural networks are making it easier to create
deepfakes in live video calls.
Microsoft Research, in coordination with Microsoft’s
Responsible AI team and the Microsoft AI, Ethics
and Effects in Engineering and Research (AETHER)
Committee, continues to develop technology
for training and testing deepfake detection
technologies.