CHINA
SECTOR HIGHLIGHT:
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
In addition to
supporting currency
generation, LABYRINTH
CHOLLIMA’s targeting
of cryptocurrency
exchanges could
support espionage-
oriented efforts
designed to collect
information on users
or cryptocurrency
operations and
systems.
Multiple Chinese adversaries — including LOTUS PANDA, WICKED PANDA and
EMISSARY PANDA — were linked to the targeting of the telecommunications
sector in 2019. Other incidents, which were notable for the use of publicly available
tools, remain unattributed but appear to support China’s efforts against this sector.
CrowdStrike Intelligence assesses that China’s interest in targeting this sector has
arisen along with a need to target upstream providers to support its traditional and
economic espionage goals.
The power of telecom data to espionage agencies was illustrated by the malware
known as MESSAGETAP, which was reportedly used by WICKED PANDA to monitor
short message service (SMS) traffic from telecom networks. MESSAGETAP can
collect and store SMS data based on selection criteria, including phone numbers,
international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) numbers and keywords. The ability
to collect data based on specific phone numbers and IMSI numbers indicates that
the adversary predetermined which individuals to target for collection, possibly
identifying phone numbers in previous reconnaissance or collection activities.
Incidents from 2019 include multiple compromises of telecom companies in Asia,
showing a continued interest in regional neighbors. While these incidents may
also support traditional or economic espionage goals, open-source reporting from
September 2019 claimed that some targeted intrusions against telecoms were used
by China to track Uyghurs in Central and Southeast Asia. This activity reportedly
targeted telecom operators in Turkey, Kazakhstan, India, Thailand and Malaysia —
mirroring the observed target scope for tracked Chinese adversaries.
Telecom sector targeting — especially in the Central and Southeast Asia regions
— would also complement China’s plan to develop a Digital Silk Road. This
initiative aims to broaden and deepen digital connections to other nations via the
construction of cross-border and submarine optical cables, communication trunks
and satellite information passageways, and the development of fifth-generation
(5G) mobile networks. Regarding 5G technology specifically, multiple governments
(including the United States) have taken note and refused opportunities to work with
Huawei, citing concerns over the company’s associations to military and intelligence
services in China, Russia and DPRK.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020