BlackEnergy Plugins
credentials, and attempts to establish
connections. Uses PsExec, which is embedded
in the plugin, to gather system information
and launch executables on remote machines

TV.dll: Searches for TeamViewer versions 6–8.

If the targeted application is identified, the
plugin sets an additional password, creating
an additional backdoor into the compromised
system

RD.dll: Functions as a pseudo “remote

desktop” server


UP.dll: Used to update the hosted malware


DC.dll: Identifies Windows accounts on the


infected system

BS.dll: Conducts system profiling through

queries of system hardware, BIOS, and
Windows information

DSTR.dll: Functions as a logic bomb. At a

specified time, the plugin rewrites files with
specific extensions with random data, deletes
itself, and deletes the first 11 sectors of system
drive, then rewrites all remaining data

SCAN.dll: Functions as a network scanner on

infected systems.
Of particular interest in the attacks against
Ukrainian electricity distributors are the SI and
PS plugins. As plugins designed specifically to
search for credential data, SI or PS are the likely
plugins used following the initial infection. Data
destruction was also a component of the final
stages of the attack, and though BE has a
dedicated data destruction plugin, DSTR.dll,
public reporting indicates that the disk-wiping
component of the attack was achieved using the
KillDisk malware.
boozallen.com/ics     59
The SI plugin gathers a wide range of systems
data. Using the systeminfo.exe utility, SI gathers
configuration information, including OS version,
privileges, current time, up time, idle time, and
proxy. [310] SI also identifies: [311]

Installed applications, using the uninstall

program registry


Process list, using the tasklist.exe utility


IP configurations, using the ipconfig.exe utility


Network connections, using the


netstat.exe utility


Routing tables, using the route.exe utility


Traceroute and Ping information to Google,


using tracert.exe and ping.exe

Mail, browser, and instant messaging clients.

Of particular interest is its targeting of password
managers and stored user credentials. [312] SI is
designed to pull credentials from The Bat! email
client, Mozilla password manager, Google
Chrome password manager, Outlook and
Outlook Express, Internet Explorer, and Windows
Credential Store, including credentials for
Windows Live messenger services, Remote
Desktop, and WinINET. [313] If any of these
applications or services were deployed on the
targeted systems, they would present a viable
avenue for gathering the valid user credentials
that the threat actors ultimately obtained in their
attack. The PS.dll plugin is also specifically
designed to search and exfiltrate credentials, [314]
and may have been used in the attack. Similarly,
the KI.dll may have been used to record and
transfer keystrokes during user authentication,
as some public reporting speculates. [315] Detail
on the specific function of these two plugins
was not listed in public sources, and samples
of the .dll files were not located for analysis.
Of the 15 plugins mentioned in this report, most
were initially developed for BE2, though they
could be recompiled for use with BE3. [316]
According to reporting in September 2015, SI was
the only plugin analyzed by security researchers
that had been updated for use with BE3 at that
time; [317] this indicates SI may have been the tool
used in the December 2015 attacks. Later
reporting, in January 2015, indicated that all
14 of the plugins had been modified for
compatibility with BE3. [318]
60 Booz Allen Hamilton
Though the primary tool in the Ukraine attacks
was BlackEnergy (BE) 3, as noted above, several
other remote access trojans (RAT) were observed
in the phishing campaign leading up to the
attacks. [319] Several reports discussed
the use of a modified version of Dropbear, [320,321,322]
an open-source SSH server and client executable
designed as a lightweight server primarily for
Linux-based embedded systems. [323] As with BE3,
the modified Dropbear was launched using a
Visual Basic (VB) script [av] delivered via a weapon­
ized Microsoft (MS) Excel document. [324] At
launch, the server is set to listen at port 6789. [325]
The modified version of the Dropbear server
contained two backdoors, a hardcoded public key
authentication process, and a hardcoded
username and password, allowing threat actors
to authenticate into the targeted system. [326] One
of the benefits, from an attacker’s perspective, of
using a RAT such as the modified Dropbear
server, is that it is not inherently malicious, and
unlike other RATs, it may not be recognized by