Detailed Textual Description of Attack Walk Through
WEAPONIZATION
STEP 2: MALWARE DEVELOPMENT
AND WEAPONIZATION
To gain unauthorized network access, attackers
may target vulnerabilities in web-facing infra­
structure, or develop weaponized files to deliver
to users on the network. In taking a weaponiza­
tion approach, attackers modify common file
types, such as .pdf or .doc files, to exploit
vulnerabilities in the programs used to view
and edit the specific file type. Alternatively, the
attackers may use social engineering tactics to
encourage targeted users to enable content
such as Visual Basic (VB) macro scripts. These
weaponized files can be delivered to specific
individuals in an organization or sent to large
numbers of users, depending the level of
targeting conducted by the threat actor.
Ultimately, both techniques result in installation
of malware, which can be used as a means to
enable remote access. [80]
In the Ukraine attacks, threat actors gained access
to targeted networks using weaponized Microsoft
(MS) Office files, specifically Word and Excel, [81,82]
by embedding BlackEnergy (BE) 3 malware in VB
scripts. [j] The BE malware embedded in the
weaponized files was also specifically modified for
the attacks. Public reporting on BE3 samples
gathered in 2015 indicates the attackers had added
functionality to the malware to support specific,
internal proxy servers in establishing command-andcontrol (CC) connections. [83,84] This indicates the
attackers had already gathered network infrastruc­
ture details prior to delivery of the updated
malware [85] and modified the malware packages
based on infrastructure at their targets.
j. An in-depth analysis of the weaponized file samples and recovered VBA scripts recovered for this report are provided in Appendix B.
boozallen.com/ics     29
DELIVERY
STEP 3: DELIVER REMOTE ACCESS
TROJAN (RAT)
Public reporting consistently indicates that
phishing was the initial delivery method, though
the exact timeframe in which initial access was
established is not confirmed. Ukraine’s Deputy
Energy Minister stated threat actors had access no
less than six months prior to the attack. [86] Other
reporting indicates the phishing campaign began
on or around March 2015 and continued through
January 20, 2016. [87] This March 2015 campaign
used weaponized MS Office files to deliver
malware via phishing attacks to many Ukrainian
organizations, including the three distributors hit
in the December 2015 attacks. [88] The earliest
phishing attacks using weaponized MS Office
documents to deliver BE malware against
Prykarpattyaoblenergo were observed in May 12,
2014, [89] a year and a half before the grid disrup­
tions in December 2015. This attack also targeted
a range of Ukrainian businesses, [90] including all six
of Ukraine’s railway operators managed by
“Ukrzaliznytsya,” the State Administration of
Railway Transport of Ukraine. [91] Each of these
phishing attacks may have been part of a broad
reconnaissance and intelligence gathering effort,
and the ultimate objective of causing a destructive
industrial control systems (ICS) attack may have
developed later on. [92] In addition, while BE was the
primary malware delivered to targeted networks,
other RATs, including GCat, [93] Dropbear, [94] and
Kryptik [95] were recovered in the investigation
following the grid disruption in December 2015. [96,k]
EXPLOITATION AND INSTALLATION
STEP 4: INSTALL RAT
BE3 malware was embedded in malicious MS
Office files, which were sent to operators in a
wide-reaching phishing campaign. Upon delivery,
when recipients opened the weaponized docu­
ments, they were presented with an onscreen
prompt to enable the macro function for the
weaponized files to execute. [97] No exploit code was
used to initially deliver BE onto targeted
networks. [98] Using permissions granted by the user
when macros were enabled, the VBA script
dropped the persistent malware files on disk at
workstations of targeted employees. [l]
COMMAND AND CONTROL
STEP 5: ESTABLISH CC CONNECTION
The primary function of BE3 malware is to
establish a hook into targeted networks, enable
persistent, unauthorized access, and use this
access to gather intelligence on the targeted
systems. The first step in this process is estab­
lishing a connection with an external CC server.
After installation, the BE implant modifies
in-registry Internet settings and MS Internet
Explorer security settings, then uses HTTP POST
requests to contact an external CC server. [m]
k. Additional discussion of the alternate RATs observed on the electricity distributor networks is provided in Appendix D.
l. By analyzing the weaponized files, the step-by-step process the BE malware executed to insert itself into targeted networks is
revealed. A detailed summary of the infection routine for recovered malware samples used in the Ukraine attacks in included in
Appendix B.
30 Booz Allen Hamilton
m. Additional details on communication process are provided in Appendix B.
ACTION ON OBJECTIVES: INTERNAL
RECONNAISSANCE AND LATERAL
MOVEMENT
STEP 6: DELIVER MALWARE PLUGINS
After establishing connections to the delivered BE
implant, attackers used this access to acquire
employee credentials, allowing them to use
existing remote access services to maintain a
presence on the network. [99] Specific details on how
the credentials were harvested are not publicly
reported, though analysis of the BE malware
provides some insight into the methods threat
actors may have leveraged.
One of the key features of BE is its modular nature
and ability to download plugins designed for many
different tasks. [100,n] Once loaded onto a targeted
system, and having established connections with
the CC server, BE3 is capable of receiving a range
of commands, including uninstall, load or unload
plugin, update DLL, download and execute
executable, download and execute a binary, or
update configuration data. [101] After loading any
plugins, the BE3 implant communicates with them
internally using remote procedure calls (RPC) over
named pipes. [102] The threat actors likely down­
loaded several plugins onto the targeted networks,
following the initial infection, and used these
plugins in several stages of the attack, including
the harvest of user credentials.
STEP 7: HARVEST CREDENTIALS
Credential harvesting was likely an iterative process
beginning with malware exfiltration then shifting to
direct interaction with deployed systems by the
attackers. Credentials can be stolen using a wide
range of the methods, such as social engineering,
keylogging, or targeting of specific applications,
such as password managers. In the Ukraine attacks,
credentials were likely collected using associated BE
plugins specifically designed for this task. The
plugins likely used to harvest credentials in the
Ukraine attack are the PS.dll plugin, designed to
harvest stored user credentials, [103] SI.dll plugin,
which gathers system data and stored passwords
from a range of applications, [104] and the KI.dll plugin,
which logs keystrokes. [105,o] In at least one instance,
attackers used their access to create additional,
unauthorized domain accounts. [106 ] Other reporting
n. An in-depth discussion of BE capabilities for receiving and communicating with plugins, as well as the capabilities and functions
of identified plugins are detailed in Appendix B and Appendix C.
o. Additional detail on these plugins is provided in Appendix C. boozallen.com/ics     31
indicates the attackers eventually gained access to
Windows domain controllers, where they gathered
credentials for the virtual private network (VPN)
used by grid operators to access the control network
remotely. [107] In the attack against the Ukrainian
media outlets, [p] attackers used VPN to access an
administrator account then used remote desktop
protocol (RDP) service from the administrators’
account to access the domain controller. [108] It is
plausible that threat actors repeated this tactic
against the electricity distributors.
Once the attackers had valid credentials, the
attackers likely shifted away from this initial hook
into the network provided by the BE implant in
favor of native remote access services such as
VPN. [109] The benefit of shifting away from the
network access provided by the malware, and
establishing multiple lines of communication, is
that it supports persistent access and minimizes
visibility of malicious activity. [110] If any one
connection is discovered and removed, threat
actors have redundant connections, and, by using
trusted communications, threat actor activity
blends in with normal traffic of authorized users. [111]
STEP 8: LATERAL MOVEMENT AND
TARGET IDENTIFICATION ON CORPORATE
NETWORK
Little information is publicly available on the lateral
movement and internal reconnaissance efforts,
though the list of targets in the final attack indicate
extensive network discovery. Targeted systems
include networked uninterruptable power supply
(UPS) devices, data center servers, a telephone
communications server, and employee worksta­
tions. [112] This movement likely involved a range of
activities over a lengthy period, including gathering
of credentials, and identification of potential targets
and services to be leveraged in the attack. [113] As with
the initial credential harvesting, network discovery
was likely aided with dedicated BE plugins,
specifically the VS.dll plugin. VS.dll scans for
connected network resources, attempts to retrieve
remote desktop credentials, and establishes
connections to remote systems using the MS
Sysinternals PsExec tool. [114] In the attack against
Ukrainian media outlets, [q] anomalous use of PsExec
to enumerate and establish remote access to
networked systems was logged on administrator
workstations. [115] Threat actors may have used this
same tactic two months later against the three
electricity distributors.
STEP 9: LATERAL MOVEMENT AND
TARGET IDENTIFICATION ON ICS
NETWORK
Ultimately, after gaining initial access to the
corporate network and harvesting valid user
credentials, the threat actors were able to navigate
successfully from the corporate IT network into
the control environment, hosting the human
machine interface (HMI) workstations, distributed
management system (DMS) servers, and
networked field devices. Threat actors used valid
credentials to establish at least two pathways into
the control environment; these included remote
administration tools to access operator worksta­
tions and VPN services to interact directly with the
client application for the DMS server. [116] As noted
above, public reporting indicates VPN credentials
for the control environment may have been
recovered from Windows domain controllers. [117]
Access to the HMI workstations and DMS
application was likely sufficient for threat actors to
32 Booz Allen Hamilton
p. The original source did not explicitly mention the target in their summary of the investigation, though the blog indicated the
attack was conducted on October 25, 2015, against a Ukrainian target, and used BE3 and KillDisk.
q. The original source did not explicitly mention the target in their summary of the investigation, though the blog indicated the
attack was conducted on October 25, 2015, against a Ukrainian target, and used BE3 and KillDisk.
enumerate all of the networked devices. Unlike
corporate networks, ICS networks often follow a
hub-and-spoke orientation, with a single, central­
ized control point. It is unlikely the threat actors
used the associated BE network discovery plugins
referenced above; using active discovery methods,
such as scanning, may interfere with necessary
communications or cause communication cards
to fail. [118] Systems identified during this reconnais­
sance phase, and targeted in the final attack,
include HMI workstations, DMS servers, control
center UPS, [119] serial-to-Ethernet converters, and
the substation breakers. [120]
Though this attack was conducted remotely
using valid credentials, tampering with the
physical network connections to field devices,
such as RJ45 or Fiber cabling, can provide
another method to gain network access. A
mitigation strategy to prevent malicious code or
a laptop from entering the network could be
something as simple as a “sticky MAC” program,
whereby the network switch port is configured to
whitelist the unique MAC address of a specific
intelligent controller, and becomes disabled in
the event the field device gets disconnected.
Similarly, if the network includes wireless
telemetry, this could also provide an entry-point
for attackers. This risk can be mitigated using
FIPS 140-2 or similar encryption technology.
During their target selection process, threat actors
likely used their network access to familiarize
themselves with ICS configuration, interfaces,
command processes, and other operational
details of systems at each organization. Even if
threat actors are familiar with the deployed devices
and applications, often system configurations will
be customized at individual facilities based on
operator needs or preferences. Prior to the final
attack, the attackers learned how to direct the
DMS at each of the three companies, using the
existing controls and HMI displays. [121] Because this
activity was likely executed on the operator
network, little forensic information on this process
was generated. [122]
ACTION ON OBJECTIVES:
ATTACK PREPARATION
STEP 10: DEVELOP MALICIOUS FIRMWARE
This incident was the first instance where threat
actors developed malicious firmware update for a
specific attack. [123] In conducting a firmware attack,
threat actors will push an update that will either
patch or completely replace the old firmware. This
is often done in an unauthenticated manner
without any verification that the new or updated
firmware is valid. Alternatively, in some attacks
threat actors have compromised vendor websites
and hosted weaponized firmware to be down­
loaded and installed by operators. [124]
Typically, the system running the firmware will be
rebooted for the new firmware to be fully installed
and operational. At this point, anything malicious
that has been added to the firmware will have a
chance to execute, depending on how the code is
designed; this could be immediately upon reboot,
or may be based on some trigger. Samples of the
malicious firmware used in the Ukraine attacks
were not recovered, and specific detail on the
execution process could not be derived.
Well-resourced and highly organized groups may
also conduct testing of malware or exploit code
intended for use on targeted systems. [125] Threat
actors may obtain specific ICS hardware or
boozallen.com/ics     33
software, and configure them to match the
operator environment. [126] Investigators assessed
that it is unlikely the threat actors executed the
attacks in Ukraine without some level of prior
capability testing, particularly the malicious
firmware updates. [127] Given the apparent resources
and professionalism of the group, outside
observers assessed the threat actors may have
used systems of their own to confirm the
effectiveness of the modified firmware used in the
final stages of the attack. [128]
STEP 11: DELIVER DATA DESTRUCTION
MALWARE
In addition to opening breakers, the threat actors
also used a data destruction malware, known as
KillDisk, at all three distributors to wreak havoc
on networked machines. Threat actors have used
both KillDisk and BE3 malware together in
multiple attacks, [129] but analysis of recovered
samples of BE3 does not indicate any technical
link between the two malware applications.
KillDisk is a separate, standalone executable
(.exe) file used in conjunction with BE3 during
the attack. The malware was likely loaded onto
targeted networks as one of the final prepara­
tions directly prior to attackers opening the
breakers. Public reporting indicates that the
KillDisk malware may have been set as a logic
bomb when placed on targeted machines, with a
specific time delay before the destructive
functions of the malware executed. [130] This would
ensure data destruction would coincide with, or
shortly follow, the attacks against breakers.
The use of an internal scheduling function is
unlikely; BE has an associated data destruction
plugin, DSTR.dll, which includes an execution
time in its configuration data, but recovered
KillDisk samples did not include any such
capability. In the attack against Ukrainian media
outlets, [r] attackers placed KillDisk malware on a
network share and used a compromised adminis­
trator account to access domain controller
servers. [131] On the domain controller servers, they
scheduled a policy for every workstation to retrieve
and execute the file following reboot. [132] Public
reporting indicates that, in the attack against
electricity distributors, credentials were retrieved
from compromised domain controllers [133] and that
UPS disruptions triggered KillDisk execution on
data center servers. [134] Both of these claims
support the assessment that the tactic used in the
media attack was also used against the electricity
distributors. Attackers may have also used
administrator access to remotely schedule retrieval
and execution of the malware using Windows Task
Scheduler on high-priority target machines. [135] This
method was also used in the Ukrainian media
r. The original source did not explicitly mention the target in their summary of the investigation, though the blog indicated the
attack was conducted on October 25, 2015, against a Ukrainian target, and used BE3 and Killdisk.
34 Booz Allen Hamilton
attack as a contingency measure to ensure the
data destruction attack would be successful
should the domain controller server crash. [136]
STEP 12: SCHEDULE UPS DISRUPTION
Attacks against operators’ UPS systems were
conducted against at least two of the three affected
power distributors. [137] UPS outages were scheduled
using remote management interfaces, [138] and
affected devices included an internal telephony
communications server at one firm and the main
data center at a second operator. [139] Public reporting
also indicates the UPS outages affected two of the
control centers, disabling the ability of operators to
monitor the control network. [140] In disrupting the
telephony server, the attackers severed internal
communications across the firm and with workers
at remote sites. In the attack against the data
center, the scheduled outage was entered directly
preceding the malicious interactions with the firms’
substation breakers, and was set to execute several
hours following the attack. [141] In this attack, public
reporting indicates that the server reboot caused by
the power disruption also triggered the disk-wiping
function of the KillDisk malware, which had been
loaded onto the systems. [142]
Some UPS network management cards support
remote monitoring and control via web browser,
command line interface, or SNMP, enabling
reboot and scheduling of shutdowns. [143] Details
on the specific UPS devices deployed by each of
the distributors was not found in public
reporting, so the remote access services used to
access the devices cannot be confirmed. In
addition, while the threat actors likely used valid
credentials in this attack, vulnerabilities such as
cross-site scripting have been identified in some
UPS management devices. [144]
This component of the attack is not technically
complex, but it serves as an effective illustration of
the level of organization exhibited in this multifac­
eted attack. Two of the reported UPS disruptions
were essentially direct threat actor interactions
with two systems, using remote access, to cause
second-order effects (i.e., server backup power
loss), which triggered malware execution upon
reboot for one target, and mirrored the communi­
cation disruption (i.e., telephony denial of service
[TDoS]) of a nearly simultaneous attack against
another target. The attacks also highlight the
dependencies of computer network components
on peripheral systems, such as power supply,
HVAC, or even physical security. Vulnerabilities in
these systems may be used by threat actors as
additional means of accessing or interfering with
network devices.
ACTION ON OBJECTIVES:
EXECUTE ATTACK
STEP 13: TRIP BREAKERS
After months of clandestine access, reconnais­
sance, and preparation, the threat actors executed
the final step in their attack: disrupting operation
of the electrical grid itself. Using existing remote
access tools similar to RDP and Radmin, [145] threat
actors took control of employee workstations
hosting the HMI and actively issued commands to
open individual breakers across the managed
substations. During the attack, users sitting at the
workstation could observe the commands being
issued but were unable to use their mouse and
keyboard to interfere with the attack. [146] In some
instances, the attacks also used an existing DMS
client application to send commands to open
breakers directly to the DMS server using their
VPN access. [147] The direct interactions with DMS
boozallen.com/ics     35
and employee workstations were conducted by
multiple threat actors, and were all conducted
within a 30-minute window [148] at some point
between 15:30 and 16:30 local time. [149]
Investigators noted that, prior to execution of the
final attack, the threat actors modified passwords
for some users to lock them out of the system
during recovery. [150]
In all, the attackers opened breakers in at least 57
substations. Though complete details on the
extent of the attack are not publicly available, one
of the three operators, Prykarpattyaoblenergo,
indicated that 27 of its substations were taken
offline, resulting in complete blackouts across
103 cities and partial blackouts in an additional 186
cities. [151] Kyivoblenergo indicated that seven of its
110kV substations and 23 of its 35kV substations
were taken offline, disconnecting power for
80,000 customers. [152] Impacts on the infrastruc­
ture of Chernivtsioblenergo were not found in
public reporting.
STEP 14: SEVER CONNECTION TO FIELD
DEVICES
Public reporting indicates that the updates were
pushed to each of the devices within a short
period, and the firmware itself was uniform across
the targeted converters. [153] With the communica­
tions between the control center and field devices
severed, even after control of the network was
restored, the breakers could not be closed
remotely and technicians had to manually close
them at each substation. [154] Manually resetting the
breakers, the technicians were able to restore
power to customers within three to six hours. [155]
Ultimately, neither the operator nor the manufac­
turer was able to restore the devices following the
malicious update, which forced operators to
replace all targeted devices. [156] At least 16 substa­
tions were disconnected from the control network
using the malicious firmware updates. [157]
The two converters targeted in the attack were the
Moxa UC 7408-LX-Plus and the IRZRUH2 3G. [158]
While both of these devices support firmware
updates by authorized users, indicating the
attackers may have used the credentials harvested
earlier in the attack to push the malicious
updates, [159] they are also both susceptible to known
vulnerabilities.
The Moxa device includes an extensive number of
vulnerabilities, and the source code itself is
publicly available; access to the source code is of
particular concern, as it would allow threat actors
to directly examine the code for vulnerabilities.
The identified Moxa firmware vulnerabilities
included arbitrary code execution [160] and multiple
remote denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerabilities; [161,162]
in addition, several of the fixes for the device were
incomplete, leading to follow-on vulnerabili­
ties. [163,164] Though the iRZ-RUH2 was relatively
more secure and source code for the firmware did
not appear to be publicly available, the device still
included a least one vulnerability that would allow
an authorized user to remotely update the
firmware with an unvalidated patch. [165]
STEP 15: TDOS ATTACK
In an apparent attempt to block incoming
communications, threat actors also conducted a
36 Booz Allen Hamilton
TDoS attack against at least one operator. TDoS
attacks are similar to DoS attacks against
webservers or other data network systems; a flood
of communication traffic is used to block legiti­
mate communications by overwhelming infra­
structure bandwidth or call-center staff. [166 ]
Public reporting indicates that directly prior to
opening breakers, one of the operators began
receiving thousands of calls at its call centers
that appeared to be coming from Moscow. [167,168]
By preventing operators from receiving outage
reports, threat actors may have intended to
mask the impact of the outage and possibly
draw out recovery time. Alternatively, investiga­
tors also noted the TDoS attacks may have been
focused on blocking callers from receiving
information, in order to create greater confusion
and frustration toward the operators among their
customer base. [169]
It is highly likely the TDoS attack in Ukraine was
conducted using automated tools, though specific
details regarding how the TDoS attack was
conducted are not documented in public sources.
While not as common as DoS attacks against data
networks, there are existing tools to automate the
process. Free software, including Asterisk IP PBX
and SIP call generator, can be used by attackers to
send floods of robocalls at targeted systems. [170]
Similar to DoS attacks, TDoS floods can be
amplified using distributed botnets, and paid
services to launch TDoS attacks have also been
observed in criminal forums. [171] Previously, TDoS
attacks have been used to target firms in the
financial sector and emergency responder call
centers in the US. [172] The attacks against emer­
gency responders were principally conducted by
criminal groups as part of extortion operations. [173]
STEP 16: DISABLE CRITICAL SYSTEMS VIA
UPS OUTAGE
As noted above, the UPS disruptions were likely
scheduled in advance of the final attack on the
substation breakers. The targeted systems
included a telephone communication server and
data center servers. [174] Public reporting also
indicated the disruption impacted control center
systems, though specific details on targeted
devices were not provided. [175]
STEP 17: DESTROY CRITICAL SYSTEM
DATA
KillDisk was retrieved and executed on networked
devices at all three distributors. [176] The malware
overwrote the master boot record (MBR), and in
some instances continued to overwrite additional
data on disk. Several variants of KillDisk malware
were used in the attack; execution routine and
extent of data destruction varied. [s] Affected
machines were rendered completely inoperable,
adding an additional burden on incident
responders and ultimately driving up recovery
costs to replace targeted devices.
Disk-wiping attacks were not executed against all
network devices. Targets were primarily on
operators’ enterprise networks, particularly servers
and hosts used by management, human resources,
and finance staff, though the attackers also
destroyed at least one remote terminal unit (RTU)
with an embedded windows HMI card. [177]
s. An in depth analysis of each of the recovered Killdisk samples is provided in Appendix B, including assessments of key variations
between execution routines.
boozallen.com/ics     37