Tools, techniques, and procedures
The other tools used by the group are public tools, and include:
Infostealer/Sha.exe/Sha432.exe
Infostealer/stereoversioncontrol.exe
get-logon-history.ps1
Infostealer/stereoversioncontrol.exe downloads a RAR file, as well as the get-logon-history.ps1
tool. It runs several commands on the infected machine to gather information about it and also the
Firefox data of all users of the machine. It then compresses this information before transferring it
to a remote directory. Infostealer/Sha.exe/Sha432.exe operates in a similar manner, gathering
information about the infected machine.
We also saw Tortoiseshell using other dumping tools and PowerShell backdoors.
The initial infection vector used by Tortoiseshell to get onto infected machines has not been
confirmed, but it is possible that, in one instance, a web server was compromised to gain access
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/tortoiseshell-apt-supply-chain by the attacker. For at least one victim, the first indication of malware on their network was a web 2/4
10/1/2019 Tortoiseshell Group Targets IT Providers in Saudi Arabia in Probable Supply Chain Attacks | Symantec Blogs
shell (d9ac9c950e5495c9005b04843a40f01fa49d5fd49226cb5b03a055232ffc36f3). This
indicates that the attackers likely compromised a web server, and then used this to deploy
malware onto the network.
This activity indicates the attackers had achieved domain admin level access on these
networks, meaning they had access to all machines on the network.
Once on a victim computer, Tortoiseshell deploys several information gathering tools, like those
mentioned above, and retrieves a range of information about the machine, such as IP
configuration, running applications, system information, network connectivity etc.
On at least two victim networks, Tortoiseshell deployed its information gathering tools to the
Netlogon folder on a domain controller. This results in the information gathering tools being
executed automatically when a client computer logs into the domain. This activity indicates the
attackers had achieved domain admin level access on these networks, meaning they had access
to all machines on the network.