Threats that affect medical networks
OK, now we know how they get in. But what’s next? Do they search for
personal data, or want to get some money with a ransom or maybe
something else? Money? It’s possible… anything is possible. Let’s take a
look at some numbers that we collected during 2017.
The statistics are a bit worrying. More than 60% of medical organizations
had some kind of malware on their servers or computers. The good news
is that if we count something here, it means we’ve deleted malware in the
system.
Attacks detected in medical organizations, 2017
And there’s something even more interesting – organizations closely
connected to hospitals, clinics and doctors, i.e. the pharmaceutical
industry. Here we see even more attacks. The pharmaceutical industry
means “money”, so it’s another titbit for attackers.
Attacks detected in pharmaceutical organizations, 2017
Let’s return to our patients. Where are all these attacked hospitals and
clinics? Ok, here we the numbers are relative: we divided the number of
devices in medical organizations in the country with our AV by the
number of devices where we detected malicious code. The TOP 3 were
the Philippines, Venezuela and Thailand. Japan, Saudi Arabia and Mexico
took the last three spots in the TOP 15.
So the chances of being attacked really depend on how much money the
government spends on cybersecurity in the public sector and the level of
cybersecurity awareness.
Attacked devices in medical organizations, TOP 15 countries
In the pharmaceutical industry we have a completely different picture.
First place belongs to Bangladesh. I googled this topic and now the stats
look absolutely ok to me. Bangladesh exports meds to Europe. In
Morocco big pharma accounts for 14% of GDP. India, too, is in the list, and
even some European countries are featured.
Attacked devices in pharmaceutical organizations, TOP 15 countries
On one in ten devices and in more than 25% of medical and 10% of
pharmaceutical companies we detected hacktools: pentesting tools like
Mimikatz, Meterpreter, tweaked remote administration kits, and so on.
Which means that either medical organizations are very mature in terms
of cybersecurity and perform constant audits of their own infrastructure
using red teams and professional pentesters, or, more likely, their
networks are infested with hackers.
Hacktools: Powerpreter, Meterpreter, Remote admin, etc.