NodeIISWeb Malware
Overview
The NodeIISWeb malware is a .NET DLL reflectively loaded module that is injected into the w3wp.exe process of
affected machines. It serves as the core component of the threat actor’s malware framework and acts as the main
backdoor on a compromised IIS server. It can operate in two different modes:

IIS Hooking Mode

The malware hooks native IIS input validation functions in the injected w3wp.exe process, which provides access
to all incoming HTTP traffic. The requests are analyzed by the backdoor, allowing the operators to communicate
with it by sending crafted HTTP requests to any web page in the process context.
8

Web Shell Controller Mode

The malware is executed and controlled using a custom web shell Loader. By sending specially crafted HTTP
requests to the web shell, the operators trigger the execution of the command input function of an instance
loaded to a w3wp.exe process. In this mode the NodeIISWeb will execute without hooking the IIS validation
functions and can be controlled only through the specific web page where the web shell is located.
The NodeIISWeb malware provides the threat actor with four different capabilities:

Run a set of basic functions - Such as gathering system information or accessing and manipulating the file system

on the machine.


Execute JScript payloads on the machine.


Dynamically load additional modules.


Perform several network related operations, including HTTP and SQL traffic forwarding and an implementation of


a TCP client instance. These capabilities enable active command and control of other backdoors deployed within
the network as well as control of the extension modules over the machine loopback interface.
To make analysis of the module more difficult, NodeIISWeb is protected by a public tool “ CofuserCore ” which packs
and obfuscates the binary.
The NodeIISWeb malware bares similarity to the “js_eval” malware family described in the “Copy-Paste
Compromises” ACSC advisory. This will be further discussed in the section “ Similarities to the Copy-Paste threat actor ”.