Hello Winnti
Another mechanism observed was to start a program as a service [T1543.003] on the
Operating System with the acquired System rights by using the *Potato tools. The file the
adversary was using seemed to be a backdoor that was using the DLL file format
(2458562ca2f6fabddae8385cb817c172).
The DLL is used to create a malicious service and its name is “service.dll ”. The name of
the created service, “SysmainUpdate”, is usurping the name of the legitimate service
“SysMain” which is related to the legitimate DLL sysmain.dll and also to the Superfetch
service. The dll is run using the command “rundll32.exe SuperFrtch.dll, #1”. The export
function has the name  “WwanSvcMain”.
https://www.mcafee.com/blogs/enterprise/mcafee-enterprise-atr/operation-harvest-a-deep-dive-into-a-long-term-campaign/ 6/19
9/15/21, 3:20 PM Operation ‘Harvest’: A Deep Dive into a Long-term Campaign | McAfee Blogs
The model uses the persistence technique utilizing svchost.exe with service.dll to install a
rogue service. It appears that the dll employs several mechanisms to fingerprint the
targeted system and avoid analysis in the sandbox, making analysis more difficult. The
DLL embeds several obfuscated strings decoded when running. Once the fingerprinting
has been done, the malware will install the malicious service using the API
RegisterServiceHandlerA then SetServiceStatus, and finally CreateEventA. A description
of the technique can be found here.
The malware also decrypts and injects the payload in memory. The following screenshot
shows the routine decryption.
Figure 4 Decryption routine
When we analyzed this unique routine, we discovered similarities and the mention of it in
a publication that can be read here. The malware described in the article is attributed to
the Winnti malware family. The operating method and the code used in the DLL
described in the article are very similar to our analysis and observations.
The process dump also revealed further indicators. Firstly, it revealed artifacts related to
the DLL analyzed, “C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\SuperfRtch\SuperfRtch.dat”.
We believe that this dat file might be the loaded payload.
Secondly, while investigating the process dump, we observed activities from the backdoor
that are part of the data exfiltration attempts which we will describe in more detail in this
analysis report.
A redacted snippet of the code would look like this:
https://www.mcafee.com/blogs/enterprise/mcafee-enterprise-atr/operation-harvest-a-deep-dive-into-a-long-term-campaign/ 7/19
9/15/21, 3:20 PM Operation ‘Harvest’: A Deep Dive into a Long-term Campaign | McAfee Blogs
Creating archive ***.rar
Adding  [data from location]
0%
OK
Another indicator of discovering Winnti malware was the following execution path we
discovered in the command line dump of the memory:
cmd /c klcsngtgui.exe 1560413F7E .dat
What we observed here was the use of a valid executable, the AES 256 decryption key of
the payload (.dat file). In this case, the payload file was named using an abbreviation of
the victim company’s name. Unfortunately, the adversary had removed the payload file
from the system. File carving did not work since the disk/unallocated space was
overwritten. However, reconstructing traces from memory revealed that we were dealing
with the Winnti 4.0 malware. The malware was injected into a SVCHOST process where a
driver location pointed to the config file. We observed in the process dump the exfiltration
of data on the system, such as OS, Processor (architecture), Domain, Username, etc.
Another clue that helped us was the use of DNS tunneling by Winnti which we discovered
traces of in memory. The hardcoded 208.67.222.222 resolves to a legitimate OpenDNS
DNS server. The IP is pushed into the list generated by the malware at runtime. At the
start of the malware, it populates the list with the system’s DNS, and the OpenDNS server
is only used as a backup to ensure that the C2 domain is resolved.
Another indicator in the process dump was the setup of the C2 connection including the
User-Agent that has been observed being used by Winnti 4.0 malware:
Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.3; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/57.0.2987.133 Safari/537.36