Delta Elektronics and Dragonfly?
Raw data and information review
The last name of Strekozov (СТРЕКОЗОВ) translates to Dragonfly in English. Symantec
documented Operation Dragonfly (AKA Energetic Bear) three years ago as a Russian spear
phishing organization.
http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2014-061601-3811
99&tabid=2
http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/dragonfly-western-energy-companies-under-sabotage-threat
https://www.f-secure.com/weblog/archives/00002718.html
(Delta Elekronics, n.d.)Delta Electronics has two locations in Russia. Saint Petersburg and Moscow.
Address: 105082, Moscow, Semyonov lane, 15, office 615 (Eastern District). Phone: +7 (495) 984-51-05 (Moscow) Phone: 8 (800) 555
90-55 (weekdays from 9:00 to 18:00, a call from the regions of Russia Getting there: 3 minutes walk from the metro station
"Semenovskaya."
Address: 195027, St. Petersburg, Shahumyan Avenue, Building 4 (Krasnogvardeyskiy district) Business center "Aurora City," office

Metro: Novocherkassk Distance: 10 min. On foot

Email: info@delta-mail.ru and info@delta-electronics.info
The Matrix Group, LLC information:
Phone / fax: +7 (495) 984-51-05 (Moscow) +7 (812) 640-46-90 (St. Petersburg), E-mail: info@matrixgroup.su. © 2004-2012 «Matrix
Group."
Treadstone 71 found ties to another company – Vacon (vacon.com and vacon.ru).
Of note, payments for products from Delta Electronics is by cash courier or via Yandex and WebMoney indicating an organization that
is not legitimate.
Establish an initial relationship with a Russian hacker on referenced off vk.com (https://xakep.ru/) under and
(https://vk.com/xakep_mag) the newly created persona of Oleg Vladimirovich Strekozov.
There are some uncertainty and plenty of leads to follow to be thorough and not leave anything unnoticed. Having said
this, the recommendations offered online are valid no matter what further research reveals. If any organizations bought
PLCs from either Delta company, better do an emergency security review now.
 Tied to Oleg Strekozov
 One is Delta Elektronics
 Locations in St. Petersburg and Moscow
 Same logo as Delta Electronics – Taipei, Taiwan
 They manufacture PLCs and program them
  - Could Delta Elektronics manufacture the same as knock-offs?

 “All the IP Addresses and Domains owned by Strekozov Oleg Vladimirovich are known for Zeus, SpyEye, Blackhole,
Malware, Crimeware, Scams, and SPAM, etc. Strekozov Oleg Vladimirovich also controls domains within the
former Soviet Union TLD .su.“
 It is highly unlikely that anyone would use their own name assigned to such activities, openly using the name in
domain registrations and then openly own over 20 companies (oil and gas) in Russia along with scores of others.
It is highly unlikely that someone of that stature in Russia (financial) in and around Moscow, would not show up
in people searches using Russian search engines but for domain name registrations – company ownership.
 Searches on Oleg Vladimirovich Strekozov – finding nothing of direct ties to a person
 Vladimir Strekozov – retired Russian judge
 Oleg Strezkozov – aside from hacking sites:
  - https://www.facebook.com/oleg.strekozov/about


  - https://plus.google.com/106396297467067086741/about


  - http://vk.com/oledjanqik


  - http://loveplanet.ru/page/749987781752/


  - None of which tie to someone old enough and financially viable to own scores of companies.


  - _The address given for Oleg in your domain name searches is dead center Red Square_ _- Russia, 107031,_

Moscow, Proezd Dmitrosvkiy 8 (yandex.com – maps)
https://www.linkedin.com/company/delta-electronics
Global HQ – Taipei, Taiwan
Founded 1971
Employees 80k
Revenues $7B
http://www.deltaenergysystems.com/en/about-us.htm#tab178
Gaps and Assumptions
Treadstone 71 believes it would be good to know some more details about how PLCs are used in oil and gas
transportation. How many are deployed in the typical pipeline? What are key vulnerable points? How many would
have to be attacked to create some stoppage for a significant period? Also, it would be very interesting to know about
Delta's legitimate business. Who buys from them and with how much volume?
What appears clearly is that there is a bunch of companies registered to this Oleg Strekozov and that his name also
appears in some WHOISs about shady sites and that he has some association with malware. Whether he is corporeal
or virtual, Mr. Strekozov is associated with Russian cyber organized crime. Treadstone 71 can immediately say that
successful organizations of this type are associated with FSB and controlled by oligarchs. Successful oligarchs are close
to Putin and, of course, Putin controls the FSB. Real or unreal, Mr. Strekozov is a tool of such a hierarchy.
Treadstone 71 is careful to leap to conclusions about whether Mr. Strekozov is real. He could be a made-up name
used for certain registrations, or he could be the weekend doorman at Lubyanka (in jest). But he could be real. His
patronymic is Vladimirovich so that the judge could be his father. A look at Facebook finds an Oleg in the Belarusan
town of Hlybokaye, educated in eastern Ukraine, about 25 years old. We do not discount him because of age--billions
change hands hourly in Moscow, and there are plenty of young criminals driving Maserati’s with a bottle of expensive
whiskey in their hand. Real or unreal, S's
address of Proezd Dmitrovskiy is in an
upscale neighborhood that is also not far
from Lubyanka.
 European locations – no mention of
Russia
 Asian locations – no mention of Russia
 Several US locations including Houston
Delta or Delta? The more Treadstone 71
investigates on this company, the more
skeptical we have become about the
innocence of the Taiwanese company.
We have found that the Russian Delta has
attended trade shows and held press
conferences. With thousands of dollars
of sales and only a limited number of
companies that make PLCs, do we believe
that some people in Taipei are unaware
about this? Treadstone 71 has discovered
other companies that do business in
Russia but try not to advertise that in the
West. Could it be that Delta-Ru is buying
or arranging sales and Delta-Tai is happy
to turn away from this? The price for
doing such business in and through
Russia is, of course, to take Russian
partner. Either way, the possibility of
supply chain contamination is real.
In applying an informal analysis of
competing for a hypothesis to all this,
Treadstone 71 has come up with two
more hypotheses that fit the facts (as
they stand now, understanding that
more information and analysis is
needed).
This could be an effort to cause serial
failures that could drive up energy prices,
although the coordination and precision for this to work past a few days would be extraordinary.
Another possibility is that this is just a scheme for some oligarchs to make money. They speculate on buying a tanker
filled with crude. While tanker is at sea, an incident occurs at some pipeline or port spiking the price of oil and Oleg's
tanker pulls into Rotterdam right at the peak.
Finally, this could be just a part of a Russian medium-term strategy to contaminate as much hardware, firmware, and
software as possible.
 Name of Delta Electronics
 Address Moscow, Semenovskiy per., 15, of. 615
 Email info@deltaelectronics.su
 Section Industrial equipment
 Phone:+7 (495) 9845105, 8 (800) 5559055 - Different locations than that of Oleg’s site for Delta Elektronics –
 Oleg does not show up in any people searches in Russia yet appears as a hacker and as an owner of scores of
companies. Is it likely that this can be both accurate and true?
 Treadstone 71 does not believe this is true.
 Gazprom has direct operations in Kyrgyzstan
 Oleg Vladimirovich Strekozov does not seem to exist
 Vladimir Strekozov was a constitutional court judge – hardly a hacker
- Not the same as Oleg Vladimirovich Strekozov


- Any searches of Oleg Strekozov about Oil and Gas only brings up site registration


- No mention of someone who owns so many firms in and around Moscow (expensive)


                         - No mention of someone who owns first in the

Kyrgyz area related to Gazprom
 It is more likely that Oleg Strekozov is just a name
backed by Russian government funding. The
location is Red Square. “Thumbing their nose.”
 Question: Why duplicate Delta Electronics if they
are not the same company?
                         - What could the motivation for Russia be to pose

as Delta Electronics?
                                      - Hardware used in gas and oil production


                                      - Sold in international markets – global name –

accepted – trusted
Treadstone 71 can imagine all kinds of functions that could be contaminated with logic bombs and backdoors, ready
for the call of the Rodina (Russian Motherland).
It should be noted that these three hypotheses are not mutually exclusive of one another as the motivations could
logically coexist.