ROCKET KITTEN TOOLS & INFRASTRUCTURE
The Rocket Kitten attacker group’s main attack vector is spear-phishing. An effective phishing campaign requires nothing more than
a tailored phishing page, hosted on a cheaply-available web server. As described in previous publications, the Rocket Kitten attackers
make extensive use of various phishing schemes, often including back-and-forth e-mail correspondence with the victims, or even
phone calls to establish legitimacy and reason to open the malicious attachment.
Actual malicious attachments detected in this campaign varied between a set of custom-written malware pieces, or ‘downloader’
components that, in turn, fetch the malware from a remote server and execute in on the victim machine.
Additionally, we have witnessed many attacks using various ‘web hacking’ tools and suites, in attempt to break into victim web sites.
Previously reported custom-malware included:
• CWoolger —a C++ based ‘woolen key-logger.’ The malware records all keystrokes and sends out key-log data to a hard-coded
FTP server.
• Wrapper/Gholee —repurposed Core Impact penetration testing tool. The malware allows a platform for remote access,
pivoting for lateral movement and further malware installation.
• FireMalv —a .NET based Firefox credential stealer. This tool copies passwords stored in the Firefox browser storage.
Check Point investigations additionally discovered the attackers using the following:
• .NETWoolger —a .NET based ‘woolen key-logger.’ This malware is functionally similar to CWoolger. The attackers seem to use
them interchangeably, as alternate infection mechanisms (in case one is detected at the victim computer).
• MPK —a custom RAT of wider functionality. The malware allows key-logging, as well as remote command execution, screenshot
grabbing and traffic monitoring. For a detailed technical description of the MPK malware see Appendix B.
In addition to custom-written malware, we have seen the attackers use various hacking and scanning tools to attack victim
web-sites.
• Metasploit —An open-source, extensible penetration testing platform. Metasploit’s ‘meterpreter’ payload was wrapped in
an executable file and distributed as a RAT attached to phishing emails by the attackers.
• Havij & SQLMap —SQL injection tools; Havij originates in Iranian development, while SQLMap is an open source project.
• Acunetix & Netsparker —off-the-shelf web vulnerability scanners, attempting to automatically discover and exploit
vulnerabilities in common web platforms.
• WSO Web Shell —a well-known web shell - PHP script that allows backdoor access on a hacked server. Typically deployed
after successful compromise to allow further actions.
• NIM-Shell —a web shell of Iranian hacker group origin with similar functionality. Additionally uses Perl scripts on the hacked
server.
Web hacking attempts were detected to originate from various IP ranges, occasionally immediately adjacent to known Rocket Kitten
C&C servers. We can estimate the attack operators either used these servers directly, or configured them as Proxy/VPN endpoints
to channel their attacks.
Combining the research work done so far with observed attacks by Check Point, we can map out a diagram overviewing the
attacker’s infrastructure.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  9
masqueraded as a legitimate customer or hacked into the servers without the knowledge of the service provider.


Specified ranges are likely to be assigned in whole for the attackers use. Due to the dynamic nature of IP assignment, these
may expire after the release of this report.


Because of the way satellite communications work, the infrastructure geo-located to Germany may not be physically located
in that country. It would be an educated speculation to assume the servers are physically located in Iran. This assumption is
supported by several indicators, including registrant details.


©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  10