~~Five cybersecurity paradigm shifts~~
ANN JOHNSON, CVP, SECURITY, COMPLIANCE & IDENTITY
In working with organizations from around the world, we recognize the need to enable people to work
productively and securely and from a variety of non-traditional locations and a variety of devices. Through
these interactions, we’ve learned a lot about the role that cybersecurity plays in helping organizations maintain
business continuity as we adapt to a hybrid work world. As a result, we anticipate five cybersecurity paradigm
shifts that will support the evolution of work in a way that centers on the inclusivity of people and data.
1. The rise of digital empathy
When we consider building security into the
productivity experience, there can be a tendency
to focus on security from purely a technology
perspective. However, during times of constant
disruption and change, when people are
susceptible to increased stress reactions, the
importance of digital empathy comes into
greater focus. Digital empathy involves thinking
about the ways in which people behave and
engage with technology. In this way, sociology
and humanities considerations are essential to
the evolution of technology and cybersecurity.
Empathy isn’t just for in-person interactions.
By applying empathy to digital solutions, we
can make these solutions more inclusive. In
cybersecurity, that means building tools that
accommodate more diversity with respect to
people and their ever-changing circumstances,
their diverse perspectives, and varied abilities.
For example, rather than requiring people to
do unnatural things to engage with security,
which can also increase their likelihood of
getting distracted when busy, factoring in
digital empathy leads to inclusion of security
professionals with a broader range of abilities,
skill sets, and perspectives—for greater diversity
and effectiveness of cybersecurity solutions.
It also means developing technology that can
forgive mistakes.
Digital empathy will be critical to how we
move forward as an industry. Whether it’s an
organization—or an individual—our ability to be
empathetic will help us to understand and adapt
during times of constant change.
2. The Zero Trust journey is becoming
increasingly important
Zero Trust is an “assume breach” security
posture [ Note 124 ] that treats each step across the
network and each request for access to resources
as a unique risk to be evaluated and verified. This
model starts with strong identity authentication
everywhere. Multifactor authentication (MFA)—
which we know prevents 99% of credential
theft [ Note 125] —and other intelligent authentication
methods [ Note 126 ] make accessing apps easier and more
secure than traditional passwords.
As we look past the pandemic to a time when
workforces and budgets rebound, Zero Trust
will become the biggest area of investment for
cybersecurity. This means that right now, every
one of us is on a Zero Trust journey—whether
we know it or not.
Note 124 Zero Trust Security Model and Framework Microsoft Security| [Note 125 ] One simple action you can take to prevent 99.9 percent of attacks on your accounts (microsoft.com) [Note 126 ] Azure Active Directory passwordless sign-in Microsoft Docs|
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS TEAMS
Introduction Summary of report learnings Conclusion
3. Diversity of data matters
Microsoft tracks more than 24 trillion daily
signals from a diverse set of products, services,
and feeds around the globe. We were able
to identify new COVID-19-themed threats—
sometimes in a fraction of a second—before
they reached customers. This is just one
example of how the power and scale of the
cloud has a clear advantage when it comes to
combating threats.
As one example, in the last year, the diversity of
data also allowed us to understand COVID-19
themed attacks in a broader context. Microsoft
cyber defenders determined that adversaries
were primarily adding new pandemic-themed
lures to familiar malware. [ Note 127 ]
4. The resiliency of a business is tied to its
cyber resilience
Cyberattacks are increasing in frequency
and sophistication and are deliberately
targeting core business systems to maximize
the impact of the attack or likelihood of a
ransomware payout. With this context, we
know a comprehensive approach to operational
resilience must include cyber resilience. [ Note 128 ] At
Microsoft, we benefit from a strategy that
focuses on four basic threat scenarios: Planful
events such as weather incidents, unplanned
events such as earthquakes, legal events such
as cyberattacks, and pandemics like COVID-19.
Cloud technology helps organizations develop
a comprehensive cyber-resilience strategy
and makes preparing for a wide range of
contingencies less complicated due to its
scalability.
5. A greater focus on integrated security
The first half of 2021 brought into stark reality
the agility and callousness of our adversaries.
To uncover shifting attacker techniques
and stop them before they do real damage,
organizations must be able to see across their
apps, endpoints, network, and users. Facing a
new economic reality, organizations will also be
driven to reduce costs by adopting more of the
security capabilities built into their cloud and
productivity platforms of choice. To maximize
the effectiveness of security organizations,
tools must be fully integrated to improve
efficacy and provide end-to-end visibility.
While digital acceleration will continue to influence
the paradigm shifts that shape our industry, one
thing remains the same; security technology is
fundamentally about improving productivity and
collaboration through secure and inclusive user
experiences.