LETTER FROM THE NSA CYBERSECURITY DIRECTOR
Eighteen months ago, several colleagues and I discussed the results of an internal study to examine
the state of the cybersecurity mission at NSA. The findings were grim. As technology and the
cyber threat had rapidly evolved, it was clear we had not always kept pace.
We left the room with a sense of urgency and purpose. A few months later, the Director of NSA,
GEN Paul M. Nakasone, announced the establishment of the NSA Cybersecurity Directorate,
with a mission to prevent and eradicate cyber actors from systems critical to national security and
critical infrastructure, with a focus on the Defense Industrial Base. These systems need particular
focus because they hold many of our nation’s capabilities and secrets.
NSA’s code-making and code-breaking capabilities, cyber intelligence and technical cybersecurity
expertise offer distinct contributions to the cybersecurity mission across the U.S. Government, as
encryption is the root of trust and a powerful component of every organization’s cybersecurity.
We generate mission outcomes through combining these with the power of our partnerships –
government, private sector, foreign and academia. We aren’t alone in the fight against adversary
cyber actors, nor do we want to be.
As we began our first year, we took a deliberate approach to building trust by sharing unclassified
threat and cybersecurity advice. We forged deeper relationships with our U.S. government and
industry partners to deliver better outcomes than any of us could achieve alone.
What’s at stake has become even clearer over the past year as connectivity between personal and
enterprise networks increased exponentially with COVID, expanding the attack surface malicious
cyber actors can leverage. We surged to rapidly deliver capacity for secure telework, and provide
intelligence and cybersecurity advice to protect networks used
in developing and approving a coronavirus vaccine.
In the midst of the pandemic, we also worked alongside our
partners at CISA, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and U.S.
Cyber Command to secure the 2020 Presidential Election from
foreign interference and influence.