Satellite link (DVB-S) hĳacking
The hijacking of satellite DVB­S links has been described
a few times in the past and a presentation on hijacking
satellite DVB links was delivered at BlackHat 2010 by the
https://securelist.com/blog/research/72081/satellite-turla-apt-command-and-control-in-the-sky/ 5/17
2015/10/28 Satellite Turla: APT Command and Control in the Sky - Securelist
S21Sec researcher Leonardo Nve Egea.
To hijack satellite DVB­S links, one needs the following:
A satellite dish – the size depends on geographical
position and satellite
A low­noise block downconverter (LNB)
A dedicated DVB­S tuner (PCIe card)
A PC, preferably running Linux
While the dish and the LNB are more­or­less standard, the
card is perhaps the most important component. Currently,
the best DVB­S cards are made by a company called TBS
Technologies. The TBS­6922SE is perhaps the best entry­
level card for the task.
TBS­6922SE PCIe card for receiving DVB­S channels
The TBS card is particularly well­suited to this task
because it has dedicated Linux kernel drivers and
supports a function known as a brute­force scan which
allows wide­frequency ranges to be tested for interesting
signals. Of course, other PCI or PCIe cards might work as
well, while, in general the USB­based cards are relatively
poor and should be avoided.
Unlike full duplex satellite­based Internet, the
downstream­only Internet links are used to accelerate
Internet downloads and are very cheap and easy to
deploy. They are also inherently insecure and use no
encryption to obfuscate the traffic. This creates the
https://securelist.com/blog/research/72081/satellite-turla-apt-command-and-control-in-the-sky/ 6/17
2015/10/28 Satellite Turla: APT Command and Control in the Sky - Securelist
possibility for abuse.
Companies that provide downstream­only Internet access
use teleport points to beam the traffic up to the satellite.
The satellite broadcasts the traffic to larger areas on the
ground, in the Ku band (12­18Ghz) by routing certain IP
classes through the teleport points.