D. List of key recommendations
Figure 20: List of key recommendations
Ref # Recommendation description
FA1.KR1 Appoint an interim senior leader for cybersecurity (a CISO) who has experience rapidly reducing
organisations vulnerability to threats and designing cyber security transformation programmes.
The HSE should appoint an interim senior leader for cybersecurity to be responsible for placing
governance around cybersecurity improvements, identifying a sustainable medium-term managed
detection and response solution (see immediate recommendation FA1.KR6), identifying future
strategy for detection and response and leading the implementation of the tactical recommendations
from this review. This role should also be responsible for planning and mobilising teams to deliver a
cybersecurity transformation required to sustainably reduce the HSE’s risk to ransomware attacks. The
CISO should be at National Director level, a direct report to the CTTO, and have appropriate access to
the Executive Management Team and their agenda, to ensure that cybersecurity risks are understood
and considered in all decision-making. This interim senior leader should be given the ability to
source the necessary expertise from the market to build a team that can give effect to the immediate
recommendations listed in this section, and to begin planning for the implementation of medium-term
recommendations. The prioritisation for the approval of a CISO and a cyber security team has been
recorded within the Q2 DRR as an ‘action control’ to Risk ID 130 with a due date of 30 June 2022.
FA1.KR2 Establish an executive-level cybersecurity oversight committee, to drive continuous assessment
of cybersecurity risk across the provision of health services.
A dedicated executive oversight committee is needed to provide direction and oversight to
cybersecurity, both within the HSE and across other parties connected to the NHN.
FA1.KR3 Create a Board committee, to oversee the transformation of IT and cybersecurity to deliver a
future-fit, resilient technology base for provision of digitally-enabled health services.
The HSE should consider inclusion of further specialist non-executive members of the committee in
order to provide additional expertise and insight to the committee.
FA1.KR4 Plan a multi-year cybersecurity transformation programme, and identify and mobilise the
resources to deliver.
In parallel to delivering tactical cybersecurity improvements, the HSE’s appointed interim CISO should
plan a cybersecurity transformation that will build lasting cybersecurity capabilities and sustainably
reduce cyber risk exposure. This cybersecurity transformation programme should be validated at the
Board level. For more details on how this should be structured see recommendation FA1: 4.2.7 in
section 4.0 Recommendations. The HSE should also identify suitable resources and expertise to plan
and deliver this transformation.
FA1.KR5 Appoint a programme lead and define governance framework for the cybersecurity
transformation programme.
A programme lead with experience in cybersecurity transformation should be appointed by the HSE’s
interim CISO to drive the execution of this transformation. It is critical that this programme lead can
work hand in glove with the HSE’s technologies teams, to help orchestrate secure technological
transformation. The programme lead should have a direct reporting line into the CISO and have a
dotted line into the CIO and be able to provide updates on the programme’s progress to the Board
committee that oversees cybersecurity.
FA1.KR6 Continue to use a managed detection and response service provided by a third party and
identify a sustainable medium-term solution.
The current service provided by HSE’s Incident Response provider is the most crucial defence the HSE
has against further ransomware attacks. If the HSE decides to onboard a new managed detection and
response service, it should ensure there is an overlap between this and the HSE’s Incident Response
provider’s current service, so that there are no periods when the IT environment is not monitored.
110 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA1.KR7 Mobilise a tactical cybersecurity improvement programme (while the cybersecurity
transformation programme is being planned), with governance that feeds into the interim CISO
and can provide updates on the programme’s progress into the Board committee.
Dedicated cybersecurity and technology resources should be used to deliver a tactical cybersecurity
improvement programme, consisting of tactical work packages that can be delivered at pace using
focused governance and reporting to drive accountability. To create these work packages, the HSE
should action the following activities:
         - **Triage**              - All third party recommendations and fixes to the security control gaps identified internally

should be triaged into tactical or strategic activities. Tactical activities should be those that will
rapidly reduce the risk of ransomware attacks and are achievable in 60 days or less. Note that
where improvements are identified as strategic, the HSE should consider what additional tactical
improvements can be implemented in the short-term to reduce risk and act as mitigating controls.
         - **Test and Assess**               - As well as the recommendations it has received from third parties, the HSE

should also include recommendations by performing:
 [o] AD security assessments;
 [o] Vulnerability scanning of all internet-facing IP addresses;
 [o] Vulnerability scanning of all internal IP address ranges; and,
 [o] A comprehensive assessment of current capabilities and planned improvements against a
framework that identifies key capabilities to defend against human-operated ransomware
attacks (such as the proprietary ransomware readiness framework used in this report or that
recently published by CISA [325] ).
         - **Architect**              - Following the triaging activity, the HSE should use cybersecurity experts to architect

and manage a series of tactical work packages to deliver the tactical improvements identified
by the triage process. These should be designed to deliver directly and rapidly reduce the risk of
ransomware attacks, and be achievable in 60 days or less. Examples of tactical work packages
include:
 [o] Uplift detection and response capability;
 [o] Remediate priority infrastructure vulnerabilities;
 [o] Lock down remote access methods;
 [o] Protect privileged accounts;
 [o] Improve service account hygiene;
 [o] Remediate AD hygiene issues;
 [o] Secure local administrator accounts;
 [o] Enforce Multi Factor Authentication (MFA) for all remote access methods; and,
 [o] Restrict internet access to servers.
This governance should directly feed progress updates into the Board committee. These progress
updates should clearly articulate:
         - the HSE’s vulnerability to ransomware attacks;


         - the risk reduction achieved by improvement activities that have been delivered; and,


         - the extent of the improvements required to reduce the risk of ransomware attacks to

an acceptable level.
325 https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/current-activity/2021/06/30/cisas-cset-tool-sets-sights-ransomware-threat
111 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA1.KR8 Bring the governance of ongoing IT and cybersecurity improvement projects under the tactical
cybersecurity improvement programme.
Governance of current on-going IT projects, that directly or indirectly result in cyber risk reduction,
should be brought under the tactical cybersecurity improvement programme’s governance
(and therefore the CISO see key recommendation FA1.KR7), so the cyber risk reduction they deliver
can be tracked, and any risk and issues can be resolved. For example, modernisation projects such
as the upgrading of Windows 7 OS and platform modernisation.
FA1.KR9 Use security testing ‘find and fix’ to identify additional security weaknesses and vulnerabilities
by simulating cyber attack techniques, before identifying and triaging pragmatic fixes.
Security testing should be used to focus tactical improvement activities. By simulating the threat of
human-operated ransomware attacks, improvements that make it more difficult for a threat actor to
successfully compromise the organisation can be identified. The HSE should bring together red team
experts and cybersecurity engineers to identify pragmatic fixes to the vulnerabilities and weaknesses
identified. These fixes should then be triaged with IT and Security teams to assess feasibility and
identify how best to deliver them (see key recommendation FA1.KR7 Triage). Security testing should
then be used to validate improvements have been correctly implemented.
FA1.KR10 Schedule a ‘red team’ ethical hacking exercise for early 2022 to demonstrate the effectiveness
of tactical improvements made and identify areas for further improvement.
The HSE’s interim CISO should schedule a red team for Q1 2022 to simulate a human-operated
ransomware attack from end-to-end, to identify whether improvements have been effective, and to
identify additional priority and focus areas for cybersecurity improvements. This should be scheduled
in addition to the recorded plans within the Q2 DRR, which recorded an ‘action control’ to enhance
penetration testing and red team exercises with a due date of 31 December 2021.
112 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA1.KR11 Implement the following tactical recommendations identified through this review, within the
mobilised tactical cybersecurity improvement programme (see key recommendation FA1.KR7).
a. Improve security monitoring capability
i. Document a process for how to respond to cybersecurity alerts, that clearly outlines how
alerts should be triaged, investigated, contained and responded to. This process should also
include coordinating the response to security alerts and incidents raised by any organisations
connected to the NHN.
ii. Augment the Security Operations team with cybersecurity expertise.
b. Secure privileged access
i. Develop and implement a robust privileged access strategy that aligns with Microsoft
good practice and reduces the risk of privileged accounts being compromised.
c. Build a vulnerability management capability
i. Stand up a vulnerability management capability that continuously scans for vulnerabilities that
can be exploited by attackers.
d. Harden the security boundary
i. Define and communicate a ‘security boundary’ for the HSE to provide a clear boundary of
cybersecurity responsibilities.
ii. Perform hardening activities on the defined perimeter of the HSE.
iii. Identify secure methods for clinical staff in voluntary hospitals to access applications hosted
by the HSE.
iv. Use security testing to validate that the HSE can not be compromised by malicious activity
from outside its security boundary.
e. Improve governance over the NHN
i. Risk assess the ‘flat’ network design and implement segmentation controls that align to
the defined level of risk appetite.
ii. Establish clear responsibilities for IT and cybersecurity across all parties that connect to the
NHN, or share health data, or access shared health services.
iii. Increase the resourcing of first and second line network teams in line with defined security
responsibilities.
iv. Define a security code of connection for connecting to the NHN.
v. Define a minimum security standard for the networking of medical devices.
f. Improve preparedness for a ransomware attack
i. Collect, organise and document artefacts created as part of the response and recovery
to the ransomware cyber attack.
ii. Identify documents required to respond to a ransomware attack (e.g., network diagrams,
asset list) and secure these in a cloud repository. This should be aligned with work to develop
an IT continuity and recoverability process which was recorded in the Q2 DRR as an ‘action
control’ with a due date of 30 September 2021 [326] .
iii. Setup and test out-of-band communication medium that would enable IT and security teams,
as well as employees, to communicate in the event of a cybersecurity incident.
iv. Ensure that the HSE has a fit-for-purpose incident response service with complementing and
embedded internal processes for its invocation.
v. Review backups and plan for a wide-spread failure recovery mode.
vi. Document a prioritised list of applications for recovery.
326 DRR Q2 2021, 19 November 2020
113 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
g. Accelerate foundational IT projects
i. Accelerate the move to cloud based email by prioritising the resources available for IT
and cybersecurity improvements programmes.
ii. Prioritise the remediation of critical legacy systems. Particular attention should be paid to the
NIMIS application to understand whether the configuration changes made in one hospital
(Hospital A) to enable the application to run on Windows 10 can be more widely implemented
to expedite the central Windows 10 rollout plans. It should be noted that a legacy risk was
recorded in the Q2 DRR, with an aligned ‘action controls’ to risk assess the existing estate
and increase investment
for replacing outdated structures both with due dates of 31 December 2021 [327] .
iii. Define a minimum standard for legacy operating systems. For systems who must run on
outdated operating systems, sufficient mitigation measures must be defined.
iv. Define minimum standard requirements for OS of medical devices.
v. Perform asset discovery activities to continually update asset lists.
FA1.KR12 Appoint suitable long-term senior leadership for cybersecurity (a CISO) and establish a suitably
resourced and skilled central cybersecurity function.
The CISO should be at National Director level, a direct report to the CTTO, and have appropriate
access to the EMT and their agenda, to ensure that cybersecurity risks are understood and considered
in all decision-making. They should be empowered to execute on a defined security vision, strategy
and transformation to achieve sustainable cybersecurity risk reduction across the HSE. In line with this
appointment the cybersecurity governance and operating model should be defined and subsequently
resourced (ideally with burst capacity resources used during any interim periods that occur while
recruitment takes place). This model should align to the three line of defence model. Responsibilities,
accountabilities, reporting lines and resourcing across the extended organisation of the HSE must
all be defined. This includes within the HSE’s cybersecurity and IT teams and between these central
teams and those within its extended organisation
327 DRR Q2 2021, 19 November 2020
114 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA1.KR13 Deliver a multi-year cybersecurity transformation programme to build defence in depth over
time and address root-cause issues.
Investment is needed in a single programme of work delivered over the next two - four years to
develop core cybersecurity capabilities in a sustainable manner over the short, mid and long term.
We would propose this transformation is structured according to a two-track delivery model with
dedicated resources and defined target states:
a. Tactical track              - the HSE should bring together red team experts and cybersecurity engineers to
identify pragmatic fixes to the vulnerabilities and weaknesses identified. These should then be
triaged between this tactical track and the strategic track for any longer term strategic activities.
Within the tactical track each activity should be defined as being deliverable within either ‘twoweek agile sprints’ or ‘60-days work packages’, to deliver rapid risk reduction by addressing
exposure to specific attack techniques. Once the cybersecurity transformation programme is
operational this track should absorb the tactical cybersecurity improvement programme.
b. Strategic track              - To build the sustainable and enabling foundations that deliver long-term
reduction and mitigation of cyber risk, the HSE should define strategic work packages for
activities that will take longer than 60 days to implement. This will include the medium to longterm recommendations made in this report. For improvements that are identified to be delivered
strategically, suitable mitigations should be put in place in the short-term to reduce risk.
Figure 21: Overview of key pillars in a cybersecurity transformation. This identifies elements
that should be considered when scoping a cybersecurity transformation programme.
IT Foundations Security Foundations Access Management
For example, within the ‘IT Foundations’ work stream tactical work packages might include the
remediation of stale data or extending the scope of the identity directory. Strategic work packages
within this work stream could include decommissioning end of life systems or implementing an
operational CMDB to maintain an updated list of all systems and applications in the environment.
FA1.KR14 Plan the HSE’s future IT transformation that reduces cybersecurity risk.
The HSE’s IT transformation lead should begin documenting and planning the HSE’s future IT
transformation. Executing an IT transformation will allow the HSE to sustainably reduce cybersecurity
risk in the long-term, as it can address issues within the HSE’s legacy IT estate and therefore can build
cybersecurity and resilience into the IT architecture.
115 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA1.KR15 Design and implement a single and centralised security monitoring capability for the defined
security boundary of the HSE that reports into the CISO.
This should be for all monitoring aspects including network, server and workstation environments,
as well as services such as email. Any reduction in the visibility of assets for monitoring should be
risk-assessed to ensure that the HSE’s ability to monitor its full environment is within risk appetite.
This implementation should involve establishing the following across the three fundamental pillars of
people, process and technology:
         - **People**              - Employing security monitoring and detection SMEs (either internally or through third

parties) that are trained to identify and respond to threats detected within and across the HSE
security boundary.
         - **Process**              - Ensuring that detection and response processes are documented. This includes

incident playbooks that outline the step-by-step response actions to be taken, as well as
documented responsibilities and accountabilities for reporting security events between
organisations (such as voluntary hospitals and reporting bodies like the NCSC).
         - **Tooling**              - Deployment of modern endpoint detection and response tooling/endpoint protection

platform tooling across the HSE environment and security boundary. This should be in addition
to the implementation of a Security Incident and Event Manager (SIEM) and Security Operations
Centre (SOC) to centrally analyse logs from systems and security tools.
FA2.KR1.1 Establish governance and oversight of Operational Resilience Programme.
The HSE should:
         - **** Nominate an executive with responsibility for operational resilience which will include the

coordination of component parts of crisis management (including major emergency management),
incident management, clinical and services continuity and enterprise risk management; and
         - **** Establish a HSE Resilience SteerCo to oversee the design and delivery of an Operational

Resilience Programme, reporting into the Board. This SteerCo should include senior
representatives from the EMT who own the respective resilience disciplines and related functions
(e.g. cyber security) and any additional key clinical and services and operations representatives.
FA2.KR1.2 Establish an Operational Resilience Policy and Programme scope, strategy and structure.
The HSE should:
         - **** Define an overarching policy that incorporates the above resilience disciplines. Clarify ownership

of the programme (for example under the ND G&R) and integration with existing policies. At a
minimum, the policy should include a statement of leadership commitment, objectives and scope,
roles and responsibilities, reference to relevant industry standards and an oversight regime;
         - **** Define the Operational Resilience Programme scope, strategy and structure across the HSE and

funded entities. Define the types of incidents in scope (e.g. physical, technological, people and
cyber incidents) and how to build and maintain a capability to respond across the organisation.
Define the operating model or the capability in terms of dedicated staff, reporting lines, roles and
responsibilities within ‘prepare’ and ‘respond and recover.’ Specify which areas of the HSE and
funded entities are included and identify accountable teams/individuals for delivering specific
components of the programme. Agree the intended end state, the timetable to achieve the
objectives and the resources required; and
         - **** Design consistent tools and templates to be used by the HSE and to be cascaded down as

resources for funded entities. Assign responsible leads to complete these tools and templates,
and develop documentation and capability at operational sites.
FA2.KR1.3 Establish assurance over the Operational Resilience Programme.
The HSE should:
         - **** Develop programme reporting, including KPIs, a method and timetable for review, and risk

management considerations. Ensure that operational resilience is a standing agenda at Board
(or Board committee) meetings
116 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR1.4 Embed the Operational Resilience capability via training and exercising.
The HSE should:
         - **** Ensure a commitment to maintain and test the resultant capability by designing an HSEwide training and exercising programme. This includes a structured programme for delivering

knowledge and skills training, and scenario-based exercises to all relevant stakeholders across
the HSE and funded entities who have a role to play in any serious or significant incident or crisis;
as well as additional training resources, validation programmes and independent Internal Audit
review to the Board; and
         - **** Ensure ND G&R and at least one Board member has direct competency/experience in the area of

operational resilience.
FA2.KR2.1 Establish and document a formal governance structure to oversee clinical and services
continuity in the HSE.
The HSE should:
         - **** Update the existing Clinical and Services Continuity Policy and present it to the Board for

review and approval. This should be nested under the overarching Operational Resilience Policy
(see recommendation FA2.KR1) and clearly articulate the purpose, scope, applicability, review
frequency, authority, Clinical and Services Continuity Management Framework, governance and
monitoring of the policy and programme;
         - **** Establish a programme of governance for clinical and services continuity - incorporated under the

Operational Resilience Programme (see recommendation FA2.KR1.1) - which provides a central
point of accountability for the implementation, maintenance, monitoring and validation of activities
in line with policy objectives. Formally document roles and responsibilities, a Clinical and Services
Continuity Steering Committee and an organisational chart. The scope should reference the HSE
and all funded entities;
         - **** Formalise robust review and challenge by appropriate personnel, of all stages of the Clinical and

Services Continuity Programme, embedding Internal Audit into the clinical and services continuity
lifecycle to provide independent assurance to the Board of the HSE’s contingency capabilities;
         - **** Secure formal clinical and services continuity qualifications for appropriate members of the

steering committee/implementation team;
         - **** Be prepared to consider the emerging requirements contained in the EU Critical Entities Resilience

Directive (CER).
FA2.KR2.2 Support funded entities (hospital groups, hospitals and CHOs) to establish governance over
clinical and services continuity.
The HSE should:
         - **** Implement a Clinical and Services Continuity Steering Sub-Committee at HG, hospital and CHO

levels, beneath the HSE Steering Committee; and establish a framework of governance. These
groups should have a similar structure, terms of reference and roles and responsibilities as the
overarching HSE group;
         - **** Draft a specific Clinical and Services Continuity Policy which complements the HSE’s policy,

according to the policy guidance listed above;
         - **** Appoint a relevant clinical and services continuity sponsor;


         - **** Integrate clinical and services continuity into project and change management processes where

appropriate.
FA2.KR3.1 Establish and embed a clear and consistent approach to clinical and services impact analysis
across the HSE to inform recovery prioritisation.
The HSE should:
         - **** Establish and embed a formal clinical and services impact analysis process, with clear ownership

at each level, including the criteria for the RTO and RPO; and,
         - **** Ensure the results of the clinical and services impact analysis are formally reviewed and approved

on a periodic basis, by senior management, and following any significant systems/process,
operational, regulatory or personnel change.
117 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR3.2 Design clinical and services continuity workarounds, based on the clinical and services impact
analysis, to enable the HSE to continue providing critical services while responding to an
incident or crisis.
The HSE should:
         - **** Design and agree clinical and services continuity workarounds, for critical processes, with the

agility and governance to be maintained for a prolonged period, and based on the Clinical and
Services Impact Analysis;
         - **** Assess all workarounds to ensure they do not pose an unacceptable risk to patient care or to the

HSE through the transfer of data or other assets between systems;
         - **** Align workarounds for similar systems or processes across the HSE to improve their effectiveness

and inform a consistent response;
         - **** Reflect the workarounds in the relevant Clinical and Services Continuity Plan.

FA2.KR4 Develop and embed consistent Clinical and Services Continuity Plans at strategic, tactical
and operational levels that align with the clinical and services business impact analysis.
To ensure that clinical and services continuity plans are compatible with the HSE recovery objectives,
the HSE should:
         - **** Implement Clinical and Services Continuity Plans at strategic, tactical and operational levels of

the HSE, HGs/hospitals and CHOs and that they formally document workarounds and the steps
involved to resume normal operations;
         - **** Benchmark the Clinical and Services Continuity Plan construction against ISO 22331, and ensure

they are compatible with future Sláintecare objectives;
         - **** Incorporate the testing of these steps into the clinical and services continuity management

training and exercising schedule/programme (e.g. through desktop walkthrough of the resumption
procedures to identify any gaps or unforeseen dependencies); and
         - **** Ensure soft and hard copies of Clinical and Services Continuity Plans are available

in appropriate areas.
FA2.KR5.1 Design an end-to-end Crisis Management Framework (integrated with the existing MEM and IM
Frameworks) and overseen by the HSE Resilience Steering Group (see also finding FA2.KR1.1).
The HSE should review the existing incident and emergency management structures, and the
structures established during the attack and other recent events (e.g. COVID-19), to establish a new
integrated end-to-end organisation-wide Crisis Management Framework that is fit-for-purpose across
a wide variety of crisis types. This Framework should incorporate all resilience disciplines responsible
for implementing organisational preparedness activities (e.g. emergency/incident/crisis response, and
clinical and services continuity management), and identify accountable teams/individuals for specific
components, as well as define all levels of response required during an actual event at strategic,
tactical and operational levels. It should also integrate with the relevant elements of the organisationwide Major Emergency Management and Incident Management Frameworks.
The Framework should include the following elements:
         - **** Hierarchy of teams required for response. Typically this will include three layers - operational,

tactical and strategic - with command and control escalating according to the nature and severity
of the Incident;
         - **** Defined roles and responsibilities, and decision making authority, for all those involved in the

identification, escalation, response to and management of incidents;
         - **** Escalation thresholds and formalised communication channels;


         - **** Guidance on how and when to invoke response structure in line with the Incident Classification

and Severity Matrix (see also finding FA2.KF14);
         - **** Agreed touchpoints and interaction between the HSE, and HGs and CHOs;


         - **** Tools and templates to be used by all responders (across the HSE, HG and CHO levels) during an

incident (e.g., situation report, classification and severity matrix, impact assessment, decision and
action logs).
118 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR5.2 Design a suite of crisis response plans and procedures to underpin the Crisis Management
Framework.
The HSE should design:
         - **** A Crisis Management Plan providing detailed roles and responsibilities for key positions in the

NCMT and supporting tactical teams (e.g. HG/hospital and CHO leadership), including checklists
of activities and considerations, and details of third party support available;
         - **** A Technical/Operational Coordination Guide providing the details of how the technical (e.g. IT

Ops) and operational teams (e.g. clinical response teams) would coordinate and work together.
This includes detailed roles and responsibilities, information flows, processes, checklists of key
activities and considerations and details of third party support available;
         - **** Scenario-specific plans providing detailed step-by-step operational guides for specific scenarios

(e.g. analyst response to malware, fire response plan). The HSE should, using the risks identified
in the Corporate Risk Register, conduct a threat profile review and readiness assessment to
determine high likelihood, high impact scenarios and create scenario-specific plans for response.
This should include severe but plausible total loss scenarios;
         - **** Functional Response Plans providing detailed function-specific guidance for non-technical teams,

for example a Legal/Regulatory Team and Communications Team (see recommendation FA2.KR7);
and
         - **** Site-Specific Response Plans templates and guidance, providing resources for standardised

clinical and services continuity and crisis management planning at sites across the organisation.
FA2.KR6 Ensure that the resources assigned to internal communications are sufficient.
An effective internal communications team is critical to disseminate information and guidance to
all 130,000 HSE staff all operating across different levels of the response; this requires additional
resources and staff to what is currently available. As part of their future crisis management planning,
the HSE should assess the requirements of their crisis response communications strategy and allocate
the resources necessary to grow the internal communications team, to reflect the HSE’s current
operational architecture, and taking into consideration the impacted and involved stakeholder base.
FA2.KR7 Document the Communications Team’s existing response structures, processes, tools and
templates in a Crisis Communications Plan.
The HSE should document a formal Crisis Communications Plan to ensure consistent and efficient
communications management across the organisation during an incident/crisis, and to guide the
actions of new members of the HSE’s communications team.
         - **** The communications team should document the response processes, tools and templates, and

structures they have found most effective during previous incidents, ensuring the resulting plan
dovetails into any existing Major Emergency and Crisis Management Plans and processes, in line
with the Crisis Management Framework (see also finding FA2.KF5);
         - **** The Crisis Communications Plan should be reviewed in conjunction with the Crisis

Communications Plans in place at the HGs and CHOs to ensure the structures and processes
involved integrate effectively;
         - **** Once finalised, all processes and templates, especially those requiring collaboration with other

HSE teams, should be socialised and ratified to ensure they are fit for purpose and based on
up-to-date information; and
         - **** The Crisis Communications Plan should be reviewed regularly to confirm the content is still

correct and relevant, and to incorporate any lessons learnt from new incidents.
FA2.KR8.1 Establish a formal training and exercising programme in support of the Operational Resilience
Programme (see also Finding FA2.KF1).
The HSE should:
         - **** Ensure this programme incorporates clinical and services continuity and crisis management

requirements and that all relevant individuals and teams involved at every level of the HSE
become familiar with their roles and responsibilities in a crisis or significant clinical and services
continuity incident; and
         - **** Ensure it is aligned to ISO 22398 Security and resilience - Guidelines for exercising and testing.

Define and implement standard training and exercising templates which articulate scope,
objectives, assumptions, results, issues log and lessons learned.
119 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR8.2 Deliver training to staff in key responsible and supporting roles, and new managers.
The HSE should:
         - **** Provide Clinical and services continuity and crisis management training for staff in key responsible

and supporting roles. Such staff should have knowledge of best practice in relation to each core
element of an effective integrated command centre and of an effective Clinical and Services
Continuity Management Programme including: risk assessment,Clinical and Services Impact
Analysis, clinical and services continuity management strategy selection, plan testing techniques
and processes for assessing effectiveness of plans; and
         - **** Include clinical and services continuity awareness training for new managers.

FA2.KR8.3 Conduct annual exercises to rehearse the operational resilience capability.
The HSE should:
         - **** Conduct annual crisis management and clinical and services continuity desktop or simulation

exercises with the NCMT and ensure scenarios extend beyond current focus to include other
loss scenarios including loss/denial of mission critical infrastructure, unavailability of key persons,
systems, processes and facilities;
         - **** Conduct annual multi-team crisis management and clinical and services exercises involving key

HSE functions (e.g. support services) and funded entities; increasing in complexity over time to
continually build organisation-wide maturity and capability; and
         - **** Support the nominated responsible owner with responsibility for clinical and services continuity

and crisis management to acquire relevant external training to maintain the currency of their
expertise.
FA2.KR9 Review and refine the post-incident review process to ensure ongoing and continuous
improvement of the response capability.
Formal and consistent post-incident reviews should be conducted following all incidents or near
misses to capture both areas of positive performance and opportunities for improvement. The
Operational Resilience Steering Group should ensure that all post incident reviews are reported
centrally to enable learnings to be disseminated across the HSE and funded entities (see also finding
FA2.KF1). Mitigating actions should be assigned a responsible owner and tracked centrally until their
completion. The process should be reflected in the end-to-end Crisis Management Framework (see
recommendation FA2.KR5.1).
FA2.KR10 Instil a culture of preparedness in the HSE to reduce the negative impacts of disruption on its
people.
The HSE should aim to create a culture that values and emphasises crisis preparedness as well as
having confidence in natural ability to respond to major emergencies. In addition to scenario-specific
plans to prepare for crisis scenarios (beyond the current scope of floods, adverse weather and
aviation disasters) recommended below (see also findings FA2.KF8 and FA2.KF21), the HSE should
implement a comprehensive training and exercising programme to familiarise all crisis responders
at operational (e.g. hospital/CHO, business support services, IT Security, etc.), tactical (e.g. HSE,
regional/area CMTs), and strategic (e.g. HSE NCMT) levels with their roles and responsibilities for
crisis preparedness and response, as well as the unique key considerations and decisions required
in various crisis scenarios (see also finding FA2.KF8). Conducting scenario-based desktop and
simulation exercises will expose individuals to the (simulated) pressures they will experience, thereby
reducing the negative impact imposed by external stressors and uncertainty in real life events.
Transferring the skills gained in psychologically realistic exercises will facilitate more effective
teamwork and decision making in actual crisis situations when they occur.
120 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR11 Design and implement an integrated notification and escalation process and acquire a means of
mass notification to all HSE staff and contractors.
         - **** The HSE should implement a uniform and integrated notification and escalation process within

the updated end-to-end response framework, supported by an Incident Classification and
Severity Matrix and an ‘Activation Membership’ list detailing the stakeholders to be informed,
across all levels of response, depending on the severity rating of that incident. This will allow
critical responders to be notified of an event and convene at pace to instigate a response at the
appropriate level to any incident or crisis impacting its operations or services; and
         - **** The HSE should review whether the use of mobile phone network providers as a method of

sending ‘blast notifications’ meets the required functionality for mass notification and, if not,
should consider investing in a mass emergency notification and communications tool to improve
its wider incident notification capability. The solution should include features for notifying all
HSE staff members and contractors or smaller groups of staff about any serious incident,
crisis or clinical and services continuity event (e.g., a data leak where formal notification and
information needs to be disclosed with impacted persons, physical or medical events requiring
safety instructions to be issued, or a total system outage/ransomware attack). Clear authority
should be designated to an individual or individuals with an appropriate level of authority to send
communications from this platform, to ensure all messages are consistent and have been signed
off by the appropriate parties (e.g. legal).
FA2.KR12 Establish a Crisis Situation Centre to manage an organisation-wide response to a crisis (see
also recommendation FA2.KR5).
As part of the Crisis Management Framework (see recommendation FA2.KR5.1), the HSE should
establish a Crisis Situation Centre construct to be stood up during a crisis response. This should
incorporate the learnings from the Situation Centre introduced by the Defence Forces during the Conti
response and include the following elements: Guidance on how and when it should be invoked in line
with the Incident Classification and Severity Matrix (see also recommendation FA2.KR14);
         - **** The hierarchy of teams required;


         - **** Roles and responsibilities and delineated decision authority of each response level;


         - **** Escalation thresholds and formalised communication channels;


         - **** Agreed touch points and interaction between the Situation Centre and HGs and CHOs; and


         - **** Tools and templates to be used by all responders (across the HSE, HG and CHO levels) during an

incident (e.g., situation report, classification and severity matrix, impact assessment, decision and
action logs).
FA2.KR13 Establish formal retainers with key third parties that may be required to support a crisis
response.
The HSE should consider the third party support that may be required during an incident include:
crisis response, external legal counsel and public relations. These retainers should include service
level agreements, clear descriptions of third party roles and responsibilities, and pre-agreed legal
requirements (such as non-disclosure agreements) to ensure partners can be engaged to support, and
be integrated into, a response immediately and scale to the size of the response required.
Work should be conducted with third parties providing technical support to familiarise them with the
HSE’s IT network, architecture and systems, to facilitate quicker engagement during an incident. The
role of retained third parties should be reflected in response plans or playbooks and they should be
involved in regular cross-organisation conversations and training exercises with the HSE, the HGs and
CHOs to rehearse efficient coordination and communication flows.
FA2.KR14 Develop an integrated HSE-wide incident classification and severity matrix for assessing the
organisational impact of an incident.
The HSE should consider the third party support that may be required during an incident include:
crisis response, external legal counsel and public relations. These retainers should include service
level agreements, clear descriptions of third party roles and responsibilities, and pre-agreed legal
requirements (such as non-disclosure agreements) to ensure partners can be engaged to support, and
be integrated into, a response immediately and scale to the size of the response required.
Work should be conducted with third parties providing technical support to familiarise them with the
HSE’s IT network, architecture and systems, to facilitate quicker engagement during an incident. The
role of retained third parties should be reflected in response plans or playbooks and they should be
involved in regular cross-organisation conversations and training exercises with the HSE, the HGs and
CHOs to rehearse efficient coordination and communication flows.
121 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR15 Designate and train incident information managers (or coordinators) at all levels across an
incident or crisis response to maintain a consistent overview of the situation as it develops.
Further to recommendation FA2.KR12, the HSE should ensure that each workstream beneath the
SITCEN, at every command level and workstream, has aniInformation manager (or coordinator)
appointed as part of the Incident response team. This role should be implemented in all local hospital
response teams, Regional/Area CMTs, and within each HSE workstream up to the NCMT. As the
information manager completes their expected role (digesting all information to gain a view of the endto-end incident), they should escalate their status and update upwards (as with the SITREPs). This will
allow the SITCEN information manager to articulate one consolidated account of events, decisions
and actions which will achieve situational awareness across all teams and parties involved.
To embed this capability the HSE should train those who have been assigned the role of information
manager and complete multi-team exercises to rehearse information sharing between teams to
maintain situational awareness. Templates created as a result of the ransomware attack should be
further developed and embedded into scenario-specific response plans, in order to support the
information managers in their role. This structure and format should be used in all teams and work
streams to maintain consistency.
FA2.KR16 Identify and acquire a secure and resilient ‘out-of-band’ technology solution to ensure an
alternative means of information sharing and communication.
The HSE should ensure that the platform can facilitate email, file sharing, call hosting and the
dissemination of communications to all staff and segmented audiences, and enable all responders to
see situations reports, actions and decisions logs and other information necessary to support a shared
understanding of the Incident.
FA2.KR17 Ensure the ‘higher organisational intent’ is aligned to the organisational values and drives the
response and recovery strategy; review the strategy regularly throughout the response as the
situation develops.
In this incident, the strategic priority was the restoration and protection of systems underpinning
patient care services. The HSE should ensure that all incident response strategies consider both the
technical and business response priorities, and be informed by the impacts and requirements of the
hospitals, HGs and CHO, to ensure they are fit for purpose.
Patient care may not always be restricted to the maintenance of healthcare systems; the possible
implications of patient data exposure should be considered in conjunction with discussions on patient
care, and incorporated into the HSE’s strategic intent during a response. Consideration should be
given to how this strategy is cascaded to all levels of the organisation, to direct the actions of the
tactical and operational response teams (see finding FA2.KF19) and to inform the activities of third
party support.
The response strategy should be reviewed regularly during a response based on new information
and circumstances to ensure it is still valid and appropriate. the development and implementation
of a response strategy should be a key focus during crisis exercising, as this will facilitate a single
consistent approach to response and recovery activities.
FA2.KR18 Agree delineated decision making authority across all teams in the organisation likely to be
involved in an organisation-wide incident.
The HSE should establish an organisational crisis management structure, incorporating hospitals,
HGs, CHOs and contracted third parties, which clearly defines the decision making authority at each
level. This structure should be socialised and embedded as part of a regular training and exercising
programme for all responders (see finding FA2.KR8.3) to ensure it meets the different priorities of all
parties and remains fit for purpose. Additional training should be provided for the HSE, HG and CHO
leadership to support them in:
         - **** creating a shared situational awareness across multiple sites or locations;


         - **** developing effective communication flows between senior leadership across multiple sites or

locations; and
         - **** establishing clear decision making and delegated authority for senior leadership across multiple

sites or locations.
Critical stakeholders or response team members at every level should therefore receive
communication about, and be trained and exercised in, the predefined response structures to ensure
the hooks and handovers within every level of the command model is understood and seamless during
an incident.
122 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR19 Familiarise the Internal Communications Team with the ‘out of band’ technology solution to
enable focused and targeted communications during a crisis (see also recommendation FA2.
KR16).
The HSE should set up user accounts for all staff members pre-incident on the selected ‘out of band’
communication platform to expedite transition to the new platform during a system outage. Staff
members should be familiarised with the platform and its functionality ahead of an incident. Details
for all alternative user accounts should be recorded centrally and stored offline to ensure contact
information for all staff members is readily available during any disruption to the HSE’s standard
communications channels. Crisis response and communications workstream leads should establish
cascading contact trees to notify staff of an incident, to initiate the use of the out of band platform,
and to enact specific channels for the discussion of response and recovery activities between core
responders. This will allow workstreams to maintain a central repository of useful information and act
as an audit trail for post incident review and reporting.
FA2.KR20 Review processes, plans and resourcing for response to future potential data breaches.
The HSE should ensure the appropriate resources, tools and templates are created with sufficient
advance notice and time prior to notifying data subjects of a breach. Having initial notification letters,
FAQ’s, responses, and sufficiently trained resources to manage an influx of requests for information
will be critical to ensuring a successful roll out of notification if and when required. The HSE should
also review and document the processes established during the response to support their future
preparedness. They should:
         - **** Complete the work of the Legal and Data Workstream in response to the Incident;


         - **** Embed the Legal and Data Workstream in the Crisis Management Framework

(see also recommendation FA2.KR5.1 and FA2.KR12);
         - **** Update the existing Data Protection Breach Management Policy to support the Legal and Data

Workstream in future responses, including the data breach notification risk assessment;
         - **** Rehearse the workstream’s response both individually and as part of wider HSE exercising

programme (see also recommendation FA2.KR8.3);
         - **** Agree retainers with third parties for future web monitoring services;


         - **** Ensure materials used to support the notification of data subjects, such as letters,

FAQs and talking points, are agreed with the Communications Team; and
         - **** Conduct resource planning for future notification programmes; for example, call centres

to respond to the significant influx of incoming requests once data subjects are notified.
FA2.KR21 Scenario planning should be informed by the risk register, the process embedded in the Crisis
Management Plan, and the activity conducted throughout incident and crisis response.
The HSE should ensure that the risk register is used to drive the creation of severe but plausible
scenarios against which the HSE should validate its resilience capability is validated. The process
should be extended to engage individuals from the HSE’s senior leadership team, risk management,
clinical and services continuity and crisis management disciplines in regular scenario planning against
the organisation’s top risks. This is best conducted in a workshop format to identify potential political,
economic, sociological, technical, legal and regulatory, environmental and organisational impacts
related to each of the HSE’s top risks, and to then explore the worst, best and most likely scenarios
for each.
Mitigating actions resulting from these workshops should be assigned to an owner with the
appropriate level of authority to facilitate organisational change where required, and tracked
throughout their lifecycle to confirm they are completed to an acceptable level. These actions and all
other outputs from these activities should be used to inform preparation activities across resilience
disciplines, to ensure that plans, processes and structures are fit for purpose; and where applicable
specific response plans to be developed for the most plausible risks (see also findings FA2.KR5.2).
Scenario planning should be included in the Crisis Management Plan to support HSE to prepare for
likely outcomes and mitigate subsequent impacts during a response.
FA2.KR22.1 Design clinical and services continuity workarounds, informed by the Clinical and Services
Impact Analysis.
The HSE should design and agree clinical and services continuity workarounds, for critical processes,
with the agility and governance to be maintained for a prolonged period, and based on the Clinical and
Services Impact Analysis (see also recommendations FA2.KR3.1, FA2.KR4 and FA2.KR23).
123 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR22.2 Design workarounds to support rapid data remediation post-incident or crisis.
The HSE should:
         - **** Establish a pre-agreed out of band communications and information sharing platform (see

also finding FA2.KR16) to ensure data generated by workarounds outside normal operations
is captured in a format that can easily be retrofitted with the information held on HSE systems.
As part of the organisation’s stand-down process, each site and workstream should assign an
individual with responsibility for overseeing the consolidation of patient and service data; and
         - **** Reconcile all medical data stored and managed through interim processes post the attack,

including data stored on personal devices/accounts and in paper form.
FA2.KR22.3 Rehearse workarounds in multi-team exercises.
The HSE, HGs and CHOs should participate in multi-team exercises to explore how high impact or
likely scenarios could impact their operations. This is extremely important as it helps identify likely and
potential impacts to the organisation and responders. These may often need a team and significant
investment to resolve, however even the discussion and establishment of hypothetical workarounds
will likely reduce the number of ineffective emergency protocols and allow space for creative thinking
to consider the ideal solution for all parties involved (see also recommendation FA2.KR8.3).
FA2.KR22.4 Consider a review to establish the longer term clinical impacts of the Conti attack.
Finally, the HSE should consider conducting a review to understand the longer term clinical impacts
that resulted from the Conti attack. This review should build on the findings of the draft research report
into the effectiveness of the patient safety risk mitigation strategies following the Incident, and inform
future steps to improve the HSE resilience against potential future attacks and minimise the risk to
patient care.
FA2.KR23 Ensure the Clinical and Services Impact Analysis is informed by an up-to-date asset register and
configuration management database (see also findings FA2.KF3 and FA2.KF22.1).
As part of this process, the HSE should work with CHOs and HGs to develop a clear overview of the
interdependencies between all departments and local sites using HSE infrastructure or services, with
the aim to create a prioritised list for systems at both a central and local level. This should be informed
by a service model for delivering patient care. The HSE should reconcile all medical data stored and
managed through interim processes post the attack, including data stored on personal devices/
accounts and in paper form (see also finding FA2.KF20).
Contingency plans should be developed by the business owners and IT teams to maintain priority and
critical services (as defined in a Clinical and Services Impact Analysis) during the disruption of one
or more key systems. These plans should be socialised and embedded across the organisation, and
a version of them stored offline, to ensure they can be implemented effectively during an incident. In
the event of an incident impacting multiple systems, as within the Conti attack, recovery prioritisation
should be addressed on a regular basis from the beginning of the response, to direct resources to the
appropriate systems and services from the offset.
124 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA2.KR24 Map and document the people and technology resources and processes required to recover all
critical systems in a pre-defined sequence.
The HSE should ensure that the Cyber Incident Response Playbook documents a pathway to recovery
that maps the people, processes and technology requirements of each system, to provide a pathway
to recovery in the event of single or multiple system failure. During a major outage or disruption,
recovery priorities should be agreed with central and local response and IT teams and communicated
to all responders to streamline the recovery of integrated and independent systems. Once recovery
priorities have been agreed, incident response mechanisms need to be invoked that provide the most
effective communication and coordination between teams.
Central coordination meetings should be held with the asset and application register acting as a tool to
guide recovery activities. A read-only, and regularly updated, list of prioritised applications should be
made available to all technical recovery teams to direct their activities and keep them informed of the
actions being undertaken across the response.
To achieve this an operational rhythm needs to be established by:
         - **** Setting up a meeting cadence at and between each response level e.g., operational or “Bronze”

(HG and CHO) meeting followed by a tactical or “Silver” (HSE) meeting, then a strategic or “Gold”
(EMT) meeting to share a cascade of updates increasing in importance, escalating priorities. This
waterfall flow between the command levels should also be used in reverse to share decisions and
actions simultaneously to all teams and impacted sites;
         - **** Each meeting following a set agenda to ensure all required areas are covered off, particularly in

terms of situational awareness of the Incident; and
         - **** Use of uniform templates for collecting incident updates, action tracking and required decisions.

It is recommended that at each level of response there is a dedicated role to ensure coordination
within and between teams. This can be the role of a Crisis Coordinator or SITCEN Information
Manager (see also finding FA2.KF15).
FA3. KR1 The HSE should continue to develop an asset register that is aligned to clinical and corporate services,
as well as underpinning a process to ensure the register is maintained up to date. Doing so will allow
the HSE to determine the potential impact of any future incident and effectively respond in a planned,
controlled and structured manner.
FA3. KR2 The HSE should create a cybersecurity strategy, covering at a minimum incident detection, incident
response and business recovery. It will also need to be aligned to the HSE strategy objectives and
signed off by the HSE Board.
FA3. KR3 The HSE should establish an appropriate cybersecurity risk and governance framework to ensure
there is a consistent and clear allocation of responsibility, authority, and accountability. Including the
need to establish reporting processes to ensure potential cybersecurity incidents are appropriately
reported in all cases. This should provide a forum for key stakeholders e.g. Clinical Operations,
Corporate Services, Third Party service managers, Sections 38s and 39s to discuss and align on
cybersecurity priorities. The HSE should appoint a senior leader for cybersecurity (a CISO) who
has experience rapidly reducing organisations vulnerability to threat, designing cyber security
transformation programmes and providing assurance to Boards of management. This should provide
the required assurance to the Board in facilitating effective cybersecurity management.
FA3. KR4 The HSE should complete its required OES returns on an annual basis to ensure compliance with
NISD regulations and to understand potential cybersecurity weaknesses with critical services.
FA3. KR5 The HSE should develop a formal cybersecurity risk framework aligned to the business’ operational
risks and strategic plans.
FA3. KR6 The HSE should implement a Third Party Risk Management framework that defines how third parties
to the HSE are assessed for cybersecurity risks and what risk treatment plans are appropriate to
address residual cyber risk.
FA3. KR7 The HSE should introduce a comprehensive, formalised cybersecurity training and awareness
programme that is delivered to all staff at all grades across the organisation. This should be conducted
on a regular basis.
FA3. KR8 The HSE should introduce centralised processes and procedures to manage and review the
appropriate access and identities that require access to services and data. This should be in the form
of an Identity Access Management (IAM) solution that would consistently manage access across
users, System Admins and third parties.
125 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Ref # Recommendation description
FA3. KR9 ICT HSE should implement a structured process for performing data backups and storing this data off
site. Regular testing of this data should take place to ensure success recovery.
FA3. KR10 The HSE should develop a strategy for adopting the appropriate protective technologies and ensure
consistent deployment across the HSE network.
FA3. KR11 The HSE should develop a process to maintain security baselines for all operational hardware
and software, including but not limited to establishing preventative processes such as patch and
vulnerability management processes.
FA3. KR12 The HSE should develop a cybersecurity threat profile that is informed by relevant sources to enable
an effective monitoring capability. This should include threat intelligence feeds to provide an informed
view of the latest cyber threats relevant to the HSE. These feeds should be used in conjunction with a
SIEM to inform and provide IOCs for monitoring and detecting across the HSE ICT estate. Aligned to
this the HSE should implement anti-virus consistently across the estate, ensure it as well as logging
and EDR outputs are aggregated and obtain a 24x7 security operations centre (SOC) to monitor the
entire business and detect anomalous behaviour and events.
FA3. KR13 The HSE should implement alert monitoring on all network servers, endpoint devices, and firewalls
for the external and internal networks. Specific use cases for each alert should be developed for the
chosen SIEM.
FA3. KR14 The HSE should implement a holistic network detection and response functionality with a dedicated
team to continually monitor for and respond to alerts.
FA3. KR15 The HSE should develop an appropriate cybersecurity response policy, supported by plans and/or run
books for cybersecurity incidents that are regularly reviewed and exercised so that it can mount an
effective and efficient response in the event of a future incident.
FA3. KR16 The HSE should develop a formal internal communications plan where key internal parties such
as senior leadership, voluntary hospitals, CHOs are receiving timely and consistent messages.
Specifically the HSE should develop specific runbooks and template responses for specific scenarios
to aid a speedy response and ensure there is consistent communication
FA3. KR17 The HSE should ensure that an appropriate response policy, plan, and process are in place to manage
multiple security incidents, perform response investigations, and collect evidence to assess the best
potential mitigation plan.
FA3. KR18 The HSE should develop formal mitigation strategies and tactics to isolate, remove, and monitor
threats. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) should be put in place so that performance can be
optimised.
FA3. KR19 The HSE should establish a formal process, as well as resources to ensure lessons were learnt and
codified from all incidents and are maintained to reflect operational and organisational change.
FA3. KR20 The HSE should implement a cybersecurity recovery plan that links to an asset register detailing
Clinical, Corporate and other priorities and test this plan on a regular basis.
FA3. KR21 The HSE should develop a formal process for capturing improvements/lessons learnt following
an incident.
FA3. KR22 The HSE should consider developing a communications strategy for cybersecurity incidents.
126 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.