2 Behind Ponmocup
This chapter discusses non-technical aspects of the Ponmocup botnet:
attribution, goals, impact and size.
2.1 Attribution
This section describes a number of aspects related to
the operators of the Ponmocup botnet.
Based on the size of the command and control infrastruc
ture, it is thought that the infrastructure is maintained,
monitored and protected by a well-organized group of
operators. This is amongst others based on the domains
in use, number of proxies in use, estimated number of
back-end systems, used delivery methods and limited
affiliate schemes.
It was also observed that in certain cases, the operators
reacted quickly to events which could impact the botnet’s
infrastructure, suggesting that the operators closely
monitor their back-end infrastructure.
In addition, some operators were observed as active
members in underground advertisement fraud forum or
signed up for underground advertisement fraud schemes.
It is believed that the operators are most likely Russian
speaking and possibly of Russian origin. This is based
on the fact that instructions to business partners and
affiliates are written in Russian, and that in the early days,
Ponmocup would not infect systems in the post-Soviet
States of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. However, this
specific block was later removed, for unknown reasons.
As for technical capabilities, it can be said that the oper
ators are fairly sophisticated. The successful combination
of various components to execute a stealthy malware
framework, in addition to the usage of undocumented
Windows APIs to reset system restore points, suggests
deeper than regular knowledge of the Windows operating
system. On top of that, it is certain that the operators have
close to 10 years of experience with malware development,
as the first variant of Ponmocop (Vundo) was discovered
in 2006. This translates into features of the framework
that were developed over time, quality tested with debug
6 | fox-it | Ponmocup | A giant hiding in the shadows | November 2015
releases of various components, in order to increase
robustness and reduce the likelihood of discovery. This
includes the fact that everything in the framework (APIs,
strings, etc) is obfuscated. Furthermore, the infrastructure
is well thought out and load balances victims between
domains and proxies as an anti-sinkhole measure. Finally,
the framework uses a number of anti-analysis methods,
such as the fake payload and blacklisting of IP addresses
and system fingerprints once an analyst or researcher
is found. Some of these techniques will be discussed in
more detail further on in this paper.
2.2 Goals and impact
As with any modern malware, the Ponmocup framework is
capable of supporting any objective, be it criminal or espi
onage-oriented in nature. These theoretical capabilities,
however, aren’t very useful in order to determine the oper
ator’s actual goals. Ponmocup’s real goals have remained
somewhat elusive over the years, primarily because Fox-IT
has only rarely seen any sustained activities taking place.
Based on what is known now, Ponmocup’s operators
are believed to be primarily interested in financial gain.
However, they are currently either applying extreme
restraint or carrying out their activities outside of
Fox-IT’s sphere of knowledge. Either way, they cherish
their botnet and handle it with care. This can be supported
by the following observations.
As shown in paragraph 2.3, Ponmocup is a large botnet,
supporting a large amount of victims. This is a direct
result of its design:
1 It is difficult for traditional anti-virus solutions to
reliably detect because it uses unique encryption per
infected system and locates its core components in
a unique location per infected system.
2 It uses one-time domains for installation, which means
that these domains cannot be used as indicators of
compromise over time or across organization.
cated AV evasion techniques, trying to stay under the
radar as much as possible, in order to avoid detection.
Fox-IT believes, based on the earlier mentioned reasons,
that they are protecting a very well run organization
and infrastructure, for their main motivation: earning
tons of money.
2.3 Size
Having established that Ponmocup’s primary goal is
one of the longest running. Ponmocup is rarely noticed
though, as the operators take care to keep it operating
under the radar. An update that included a failed printer
exploit, in 2012, provided a rare moment in the lime lights:
it caused printers worldwide to start printing garbage
data until they ran out of paper or ink [1] .
fox-it | Ponmocup | A giant hiding in the shadows | November 2015 | 7
1 http://www.bbc.com/
news/technology-18547935
and http://www.gizmodo.
co.uk/2012/06/printer-virus-
on-the-loose-good-day-for-
paper-companies-bad-day-
for-trees/
Figure 2: Ponmocup key figures
3 It supports theft of FTP and Facebook credentials
out of the box, which Fox-IT believes may be used to
support further spreading the botnet if needed.
Finally, Ponmocup is believed to be aimed at financial
gain for the following reasons:
1 The plug-in that support advertisement fraud (ppc,
abbreviation for ‘pay-per-click’) is the most actively
developed plug-in.
2 The framework appears to target mainly wealthy
and larger English speaking nations for banking,
investment and trading websites that store sensitive
personal information which could help in committing
fraud. Its targets originally comprised mainly EU
and larger English speaking countries, which later
narrowed down to English speaking countries only,
narrowing down even further to United Kingdom and
United States only in 2012.
3 It supports theft of Bitcoin wallets.
As already outlined, Ponmocup is believed to be aimed
at financial gain. Although it is hard to quantify the exact
amount of money earned with the Ponmocup botnet, it
is likely that it is already a multi-million dollar business
for years now. There are multiple reasons to assume
this is the case. Firstly, their infrastructure is complex,
distributed and extensive, with servers for dedicated
tasks. Secondly, they operate, maintain and monitor
their comprehensive infrastructure with a group of
operators and are quickly able to mitigate potential risks
that are discovered. Thirdly, the malware itself is very
sophisticated using a multi staged loader and sophisti