Introduction
The Winnti Group (also known as APT41, BARIUM, and Blackfly) is an alleged Chinese statesponsored umbrella organization in China’s intelligence branch linked through their use of shared
goals and attack resources. The suspected state-sponsor link to China’s government pinpoints
that it likely has an incentive to continue targeting a variety of industries, especially one’s
highlighted as priority for China’s economic development.
On Friday, 13 January, QuoIntelligence (QuoINT) detected a new Winnti sample uploaded to a
public virus scanner from a German location. Following our preliminary analysis, we assessed
with high confidence that the sample was used to target a previously unreported German
https://quointelligence.eu/2020/04/winnti-group-insights-from-the-past/ 1/13
4/21/2020 WINNTI GROUP: Insights From the Past — QuoIntelligence - Our Finished Intelligence, Tailor-made for Your Organization
chemical company. Additionally, during our analysis we uncovered a previously unknown stolen
digital certificate being used to digitally sign Winnti related drivers, and a potential campaign
against an already known South Korean video game company.
In the last year, researchers and journalists have publicly disclosed that the Winnti group targeted
and eventually compromised Henkel (2014), BASF (2015), Bayer (2018) and Roche (2019). This
most recent previously unreported German chemical company is yet another German chemical
company targeted by Winnti since 2015. Prior to our analysis this attack activity was not publicly
reported.
Figure 1: Timeline of attacks located in Germany and attributed to Winnti
In December 2019, Germany’s Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) released
a report related to the alleged Chinese state sponsored umbrella organization known as the
Winnti Group. Through our internal malware analysis, we are confident that the sample we
discovered is highly similar to the Winnti sample described in the BfV report. The sample also
matches known characteristics of Winnti’s arsenal shared through intelligence reports produced
by ESET.
Further, we have informed the affected company, law enforcement agencies, and sent a Warning
to our customers upon detection.