Shellcode x64: stager (base backdoor)
This shellcode is very similar to the previous one, but it deserves a separate description because
of differences in its network code and method of launching modules. This shellcode has basic
functions for file system interaction which are not available in the shellcode described earlier.
Also the configuration format, network code, and network addresses used as C2 by this shellcode
are similar to code from a 2018 blog post by NCC Group about a Gh0st RAT variant. However, we
did not find a connection to Gh0st RAT.
This variant of the shellcode has only one communication channel, via SSL. The shellcode imple
ments it with two legitimate libraries, libeay32.dll and ssleay32.dll, hard-coded in the shellcode
itself.
First the shellcode performs a dynamic search for API functions and loads SSL libraries. The
libraries are not saved to disk; they are read from the shellcode and mapped into memory. Next
the malware searches the mapped image for the functions it needs to operate.
Then it parses the configuration string, which is also hard-coded in the shellcode. The configura
tion includes information on addresses of C2 servers and schedule for malware operation.
Figure 20. Sample of configuration string

nccgroup.trust/uk/about-us/newsroom-and-events/blogs/2018/april/
decoding-network-data-from-a-gh0st-rat-variant/

13
After that the malware starts its main operating cycle. It checks if the current time matches the
malware operational time. If not, the malware sleeps for about 7 minutes and checks again. This
happens until the current time is the operational time, and only then does the malware resume
operation. Figure 20 demonstrates an example in which the malware remains active at all times
on all days of the week.
When the operational time comes, the malware goes down the list of C2 servers specified in the
configuration and tries to connect. The malware subsequently interacts with whichever of the C2
servers it is able to successfully connect to first.
Then the malware sends the information on the infected computer (such as computer name,
current date, OS version, 32-bit vs. 64-bit OS and CPU, and IP addresses on network interfaces
and their MAC addresses). After the information on the infected computer is sent, the malware
expects a response from C2. If C2 returns the relevant code, sending is deemed successful and
the malware proceeds. If not, the malware goes back to sequentially checking C2 addresses. Next
it starts processing incoming commands from C2.