Methods of malware distribution
At the very beginning of their activity in 2013 due
to lack of the target Trojan the attackers began to
distribute Andromeda and Pony. They distributed
these malware using Driveby through a bunch of
Neutrino Exploit Kit exploits as shown in the figure
below. It is interesting that in the autumn 2013 they
used the site http://php.net/ as traffic source to
Magnitude EK. They redirected the traffic from this
resource since July 2013, but this fact was discovered much later. The name of one of the streams to
distribute the malware is “LOL BANK FUCKIUNG”
that corresponded to the attacker activities.
Parallel to this technique they also use another
infection method, which was one of the principal
methods. The main method of distribution is sending emails with malicious attachments on behalf of
the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, a potential client or an real counterparty (at first the attackers had cracked this counterparty account, then they
used emailing with the cracked contact list).
Another used method is to install a special
malware to carry out targeted attacks via another
malware that might appear in the local network
by accident. To find such malicious programs the
criminal group keeps in touch with several owners of
large botnets that massively distributes their mal
ware. The attackers buy from these botnet owners
the information about IP-addresses of computers
where the botnet owners have installed malware and
then check whether the IP-address belongs to the
financial and government institutions. If the malware is in the subnet of interest, the attackers pay
the large botnet owner for installation of their target
malware. Such partner relations were established
with owners of botnets Zeus, Shiz Ranbyus. All of
these trojans are bank Trojans, their usage is explained by the previously established relationships.
In late 2013 the hacker under the alias Dinhold began to build his own botnet using modified Carberp,
having uploaded its source code for public access.
The attackers were trying to create similar relations
with this hacker, but in 2014 he was arrested, having
not developed his botnet up to the required level.
To check whether the IP-address belongs to the
desired network the following script is used:
!/usr/bin/python