Conclusion:
The conglomeration of hacktivists, state sponsored hackers and cyber mercenaries are
continuously targeting American corporations, organizations, Universities and government
networks. The malicious element is winning because the United States lacks proper cyber
hygiene and has yet to expedite a path to a cybersecurity-centric culture. Metaphors matter
as the language to describe cyberattacks today shape the legislative community’s
constitutional adherence in future policy. The reader is cautioned to be weary of the new
cliché “Cyberwar” continuously being used as a kneejerk reaction in times of panic. As we
experience warlike tactics being used by a wide variety of bad actors (with a multitude of
motivations) in a cyber setting it will be important to distinctively separate what defines
cyberwar from cyber conflict, cyberattack and cyber espionage as each term holds a different
variant of retribution and/or penalties.
American industry as a whole is an easy target because seasoned adversaries are
breaching virtually defenseless networks. Organizations are encouraged to follow, at a
minimum the latest NIST Standards for Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity. A vigilant
approach to cyber and social engineering education, application patching, technical
abnormality notifications etc. are paramount for organizations striving to minimize attack
surface and maximize defenses.
Even with multi-factor authentication and cybersecurity protocols in place, breaches
will happen. Optimized cybersecurity strategies will use early warning mechanisms such as
behavioral analytics and behavioral biometrics coupled with multilayered encryption. This
‘Tar Pit’ method will slow down a breach, alert the proper administrator and minimize
66
threat. That said, even the most robust cybersecurity strategy is useless if the bad actor has
obtained legitimate admin credentials, therefore education is essential. Spear Phishing is one
commonality shared by a majority of hacking events. Spoofed URL’s, watering hole attacks
etc. are all dependent on getting the target to click on a link or open an attachment that
carries the malicious code that will infect one’s network; the objective is to train staff to
identify these subtleties that will have catastrophic impact.
Targeted advanced persistent threats will continue to multiply and become more
sophisticated. Optimal application of the most up-to-date defense technologies is the first
step in demotivating hackers from attempting to breach one’s network as attackers will
typically pick the path of least resistance and complexity. Understanding the enemy and
learning from past mistakes while planning for new threats based on reliable research must
be part of every association’s cyber strategy.
67