It’s All About Making Money – For Now
One of the interesting aspects of this campaign is the economic impact on users and advertisers. Abusing
many ad server software development kits (SDKs) and defrauding them for revenue, HummingBad uses
the entire spectrum of paid events for its operation, including displaying ads, creating clicks, and
installing fraudulent apps. These illegitimate tactics generate more revenue for HummingBad developers
than playing by the rules.
Developers track the effectiveness of the apps in each category with the “Developer Defined Events”
section in Yingmob’s Umeng interface. Each Umeng can modify the apps to contain whichever event they
wish. In the case of HummingBad, most fields relate to ad fraud. Our research team extracted the
following data from the campaign:


The apps display more than 20 million advertisements per day


Yingmob achieves a high click rate of 12.5% with illegitimate methods, resulting in over 2.5


million clicks per day

HummingBad installs more than 50,000 fraudulent apps per day

This translates to significant revenues:
Yingmob’s average revenue per clicks (RPC) is USD $0.00125

Accumulated revenue from clicks per day reaches more than $3,000

The rate for each fraudulent app is $0.15 with accruing over $7,500 per day

Yingmob makes $10,000 per day or about $300,000 a month .

While profit is powerful motivation for any attacker, Yingmob’s apparent self-sufficiency and
organizational structure make it well-positioned to expand into new business ventures, including
productizing the access to the 85 million Android devices it controls. This alone would attract a whole new
audience – and a new stream of revenue – for Yingmob. Quick, easy access to sensitive data on mobile
devices connected to enterprises and government agencies around the globe is extremely attractive to
cybercriminals and hacktivists.
Without the ability to detect and stop suspicious behavior, these millions of Android devices and the data
on them remain exposed today.
©2016 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved   |   P.  6