Checkbox Survey RCE Exploit (CVE-2021-27852)
One of the vulnerabilities that the threat actor leveraged to exploit IIS servers is a 0-day vulnerability associated with
an insecure implementation of the deserialization mechanism within the “Checkbox Survey” web application, a
commercial survey platform. The vulnerability in the “Checkbox Survey” application enables remote code execution
(RCE) on the target resulting with the initial compromise of an IIS server. Analysis of the activity found the vulnerability
resides in an insecure implementation of the VIEWSTATE mechanism in .NET.
VIEWSTATE is a mechanism in .NET used to maintain and preserve web page session data between a client and a
server. When using this feature any client that browses an application receives a serialized .NET object that contains
the values of specific variables. When the client sends an HTTP request back to the web application, the VIEWSTATE
object is sent along with it, which in turn gets deserialized and processed on the server’s side setting the variables to
their previous values.
The vulnerability in “Checkbox Survey” was identified on a specific webpage in the application where the methods
originally used to handle the VIEWSTATE mechanism were replaced with an insecure and compressed version called
VSTATE. As illustrated in Figure 1, the new “LoadPageStateFromPersistenceMedium” method does not validate the
integrity of the data passed in the VSTATE variable, blindly triggering the deserialization process. Sending a crafted
VSTATE variable which exploits the “LosFormatter” deserialization process would allow a threat actor to execute code
remotely on the Checkbox application server.
Figure 1: Vulnerable code snippet found within Checkbox code [2]
2 Checkbox source code found on GitHub
4
The same exact VSTATE implementation was published in a blog post in 2005 as a solution for a compressed
implementation of VIEWSTATE. Some web applications have copied this piece of code into their own repository,
exposing the application to the vulnerability. This topic of VSTATE deserialization exploits was covered in the past by
Graa – Security Blog. The vulnerable piece of code was found in version 6 of the “Checkbox Survey” software and is
shown in Figure 1 .
The flow of the VSTATE deserialization exploit used by the threat actor was executed in a single HTTP POST to the
Checkbox application server, and is illustrated in Figure 2 below:

The threat actor crafts and sends an HTTP POST request containing two main components – A crafted VSTATE

variable containing a reflective loader DLL and a VSTATEGENERATOR variable containing the NodeIISWeb
malware.


The exploited deserialization process executes the reflective loader DLL contained in the VSTATE variable.


The reflective loader DLL reads, decodes, and decrypts the data passed in the “__VSTATEGENERATOR”


parameter.

Finally, the decrypted data (the NodeIISWeb malware) is reflectively loaded and acts as a backdoor on the

compromised asset.
Figure 2 : Threat actor VSTATE/VIEWSTATE exploit flow.