Interactions with control servers
Winnti malware handles outbound communications using multiple protocols including:
ICMP, HTTP, as well as custom TCP and UDP protocols. Use of these protocols is
thoroughly documented in the Novetta and Kaspersky reports. While the outbound
communication mechanisms are well documented, less attention has been paid to a
feature of recent versions of Winnti we came across in the Linux variant (as well as
Windows) that allows the operators to initiate a connection directly to an infected host,
without requiring a connection to a control server.
This secondary communication channel may be used by operators when access to the
hard-coded control servers is disrupted. Additionally, the operators could leverage this
feature when infecting internet-facing devices in a targeted organization to allow them to
reenter a network if evicted from internal hosts. This passive implant approach to
network persistence has been previously observed with threat actors like Project Sauron
and the Lamberts.
Initial technical information about this feature was shared by the Thyssenkrupp CERT in
the form of an Nmap¹³ script¹⁴ that could be used to identify Winnti infections through
network scanning. This script identifies infected hosts by first sending a custom hello
packet, immediately followed by an encoded request for host information, and then
parsing the response. The workflow of the script is diagrammed below:
https://medium.com/chronicle-blog/winnti-more-than-just-windows-and-gates-e4f03436031a 5/8
5/16/2019 Winnti: More than just Windows and Gates – Chronicle Blog – Medium
The initial request, referred to as the helo/hello request in the Nmap script, is comprised
of four DWORDs. The first three are generated by rand() and the fourth is computed
based on the first and third. When received by a Winnti-infected host, it will validate the
received packet and listen for a second inbound request containing tasking. A
breakdown of this traffic is shown below.
This second request ( Encoded Get System Information Request ) is encoded using the
same method as the custom TCP protocol used for communication with command-and
control servers, which uses a two-byte XOR encoding. Before acting on the request,
Winnti will validate the third DWORD contains the magic value 0xABC18CBA before
executing tasking.
While it may be possible to conduct broad scanning to identify infected systems, the
results would likely only be the subset that are directly Internet accessible.