04 RECOMMENDATIONS
   5 Indicators of 6 Appendix
compromise
  
Updates of software and operating systems
To prevent infection through execution of exploits, it is enough to update
your Microsoft and Adobe software.The Lazarus group uses known and
patched exploits, rather than leveraging 0day vulnerabilities. That’s why,
even usual software updates did not allow attackers to infiltrate corporate
networks. Unfortunately, some of the attacked banks did not comply with this
requirement.
Network traffic analysis
Even if the criminals have managed to obtain access to the corporate
network, the attack can still be successfully prevented. After intrusion into the
company’s network hackers still need to find systems of their interest, and
gain access to them. It takes days and even months sometimes, and this time
should be used to detect the malicious activity.
Attackers use malicious programs that transfer data to the C&C server —
Layer 1. Communications between the infected computer and the C&C server
can be identified through network traffic analysis. All communications are
encrypted, that is why you should use solutions that can detect network
anomalies based on threat intelligence data.
Application whitelisting
Application whitelisting should be introduced into critical bank servers. This
will prevent attackers from installing their remote control tools, monitoring
financial transactions, and escalating privileges. It also helps to identify
unauthorized attempts to run such malicious applications.
Checking indicators of compromise
The “Indicators of compromise” section contains current and historical
intelligence data. With these indicators, you can check if your organization
was, or is, under attack by Lazarus. The group uses legitimate compromised
servers, that’s why these indicators can give false positives.
Response
And the most important thing: if you have detected trails of a targeted attack
at any stage, you need to involve specialized companies for its analysis.
Incorrect responses to the attack result in the attacker activity remaining
partly undetected to enable criminals to achieve their goal — to steal money.