Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the planet
Almost every quarter, someone publishes major research devoted to campaigns or incidents involving Asian
APT groups. These campaigns and incidents are targeting various organizations from a multitude of industries.
Likewise, the geographic locations of victims are not limited to just one region. This type of research normally
contains detailed information about the tools used by APT actors, the vulnerabilities that they exploit, and
sometimes even a specific attribution. Despite the large number of these types of reports, companies often
remain unprepared to face these kinds of attackers. With the advanced tools and techniques used by threat
actors today, cybersecurity professionals require not only high-level expertise and extensive experience, but
also the infrastructure supplemented by well-organized asset management and vulnerability management
processes, network segmentation, fine-tuned audits, and intelligently configured data security tools. In most
cases, an unprepared infrastructure is the primary factor enabling Asian APT groups to conduct successful
attacks.
When considering the importance of preparing the infrastructure and fine-tuning the processes mentioned
above, do not forget about the fundamental Blue Team principle: to successfully defend against an attack,
you must understand how it is conducted. To counteract targeted attacks, you must understand the tactics,
techniques, and procedures of threat actors.
For this purpose, in this section we gathered information about incidents occurring at different times in
different countries over the course of 2022 and involving various Asian APT groups
Figure 1 Geographic location of victims mentioned in the Incidents section

Russia

Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the planet
Contents 8
The samples observed in the described incidents were also observed by us in other countries, including
Canada, Vietnam, South Africa, and Japan (Figure 2). For each incident, we described various stages of the
attack and highlighted the threat actor's TTPs. A more detailed description of the APT actors techniques is
provided in the Technical details section.
Figure 2 Geographic location of samples mentioned in the Incidents section

Japan

Each case study in this section covers a unique investigation. In some cases, we were able to study an attack
in its entirety, starting from the Initial Access stage and finishing with the Impact stage. In other cases, our
investigation began at the later stages of the Cyber Kill Chain. Out of the many incidents that we examined, we
selected those that revealed the most about the behavioral patterns of Asian APT groups.
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the planet
Contents 9
Figure 3 Geographic location of C&C servers in investigated incidents
The detailed description of a particular incident includes an in-depth history of the attack progression. We
included the actual command-line arguments, registry keys, and the paths and names of the files and utilities
employed by the actors behind the attack. We altered only the sensitive information.
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Contents 10
Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the planet