Request for Support
This appendix discusses how Army units request support for cyberspace operations and
electromagnetic warfare during joint operations. Army forces may require offensive
cyberspace operations support for identified targets that require engagement using
cyberspace attacks. Defensive cyberspace operations support may be necessary when
an identified threat in friendly cyberspace is beyond the scope of cyberspace security.
Electromagnetic warfare support may be required when an Army unit needs
augmentation or when their electromagnetic warfare capabilities or authorities cannot
fulfill the requirements to support operations or the commander’s intent.
E-1. This section describes procedures to request DCO-IDM, OCO, and DCO-RA support at corps and
below. It also discusses how Army units request non-organic EW support as an augmentation to fulfill
targeting gaps.
OVERVIEW OF REQUEST FOR SUPPORT
E-2. In conjunction with the necessary legal and operational authorities, commanders select organic EW
capabilities to create desired effects on targets identified for EAs. If a unit’s organic EW capabilities do not
fulfill the targeting requirements to support the commander’s intent, or if the commander does not have the
authority to employ a particular EW capability, the CEMA section requests support from the next higher
echelon. To request EA that will be administered by aircraft, the CEMA section uses the Joint Tactical Air
Strike Request and the support request tool.
E-3. As requests pass from echelon to echelon, each echelon processes the Joint Tactical Air Strike Request
to assess their ability to provide the support that meets the requesting unit’s requirements. The requirement
elevates either until it reaches an echelon that can support the requesting unit or until the highest echelon
denies the request. Supporting a requesting unit may not be possible due to prioritization, timing, capabilities,
authorization, or conflict with other EW capability requirements. Commanders ultimately have the
responsibility for denying resource requests and may delegate that authority to their staff. The joint force
commander may refuse a request for joint air resources, but not the joint force air component commander.
E-4. Corps and below units do not have organic cyberspace capabilities to conduct DCO-IDM, DCO-RA,
or OCO missions. The G-3 or S-3 requests support through higher headquarters. The G-6 or S-6 and the
CEMA section coordinate to request DCO-IDM after determining that a threat in friendly cyberspace is
beyond the scope of cyberspace security. DCO-IDM is an enabler for DCO-RA. Cyber mission forces
performing DCO-IDM request DCO-RA upon deciding that a cyberspace threat requires a defensive attack
beyond friendly cyberspace. OCO is used to create desired effects on targets identified for cyberspace attacks
on the integrated target list. DCO-RA and OCO are similar except that DCO-RA is only used to deter a threat,
whereas OCO is used to project power.
REQUESTING OFFENSIVE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS SUPPORT
E-5. For OCO missions, the CEMA working group identifies targets that have met the established targeting
selection standards during the targeting process (see Chapter 4) and aligned with the commanders’ targeting
guidance. Once approved, the fires support element adds these targets to the unit’s high payoff target list with
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-1
Appendix E
all other identified non-cyberspace related targets. The CEMA working group will also make
recommendations to the no-strike list and restricted target list that supports the commanders targeting
guidance.
E-6. Combat mission teams provide OCO capabilities to corps and below units per request through the RFS
process. Upon the commander’s approval, the CEMA section submits an RFS along with the high payoff
target list, no-strike list, and restricted target list, to higher headquarters through the joint force land
component command, to the JTF headquarters as nominations for the joint targeting cycle and joint no-strike
list or restricted target list. Targets that require OCO-related tasks should include such data as known IP
addresses, if possible, known physical locations, and any known cyber-personas associated with the target.
E-7. Once the JTF headquarters approves the OCO related targets identified in the corps’ high payoff target
list, they will add them to the joint targeting cycle. The JTF headquarters then continues the RFS process to
receive OCO support from JFHQ-C (See figure E-1 on page E-3).
Note. USCYBERCOM does not accept the cyber effects request format (CERF). The staff uses a
RFS to request OCO support in a joint environment. JTF headquarters and their subordinate units
must become familiar with the RFS or any other standardized requesting format established by
USCYBERCOM and the CCMD before requesting support. The joint force land component
command, converts all CERFs received from Army forces to RFS formats before forwarding to
the JTF headquarters.
E-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Request for Support
Figure E-1. Routing process when requesting offensive cyberspace operations support
REQUESTING DEFENSIVE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS SUPPORT
E-8. Corps and below units do not have organic DCO-IDM capabilities and must request for DCO-IDMrelated tasks through the RFS process. DCO-IDM support is necessary for threats on the DODIN-A beyond
the scope or abilities of organic cyberspace forces conducting cyberspace security. Units request DCO-IDM
as a reactive measure to defend against a cyberspace threat. The G-6 or S-6 coordinates with the G-3 or S-3
to develop an RFS requesting DCO-IDM support.
E-9. Upon commander’s approval, the RFS is submitted, validated, and channeled to higher headquarters,
through the joint force land component command, to JTF headquarters until it reaches the CCMD’s joint
cyberspace center. The requesting unit additionally informs a cybersecurity service provider (Defense
Information Systems Agency or NETCOM) of the cyberspace threat. The JTF headquarters routes the RFS;
the cybersecurity service provider also notifies JFHQ-DODIN of the identified cyberspace threat. The CCMD
has organic CCMD CPTs that conduct DCO-IDM in friendly cyberspace. CCDRs have directive authority
for cyberspace operations that authorizes DCO-IDM missions within their assigned AOR without requesting
authorization from USCYBERCOM.
E-10. The CCMD CPTs primary focus is employing DCO-IDM throughout the AOR and may be unavailable
to provide support to requesting corps and below units. If the CCMD CPTs are unavailable, the joint
cyberspace center forwards the RFS through the cyberspace operations-integrated planning element to the
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-3
Appendix E
JFHQ-DODIN through the USCYBERCOM portal. The cyberspace operations-integrated planning element
provides situational awareness of all DCO-IDM missions conducted in the AOR to USCYBERCOM.
Note. When a cybersecurity service provider becomes aware of a threat on the DODIN, it forwards
the information to JFHQ-DODIN. The JFHQ-DODIN uses the notice from the cybersecurity
service provider to begin the process of employing a CPT (either DODIN or Service) before
receiving the RFS through the routing channels. However, the requesting unit is still responsible
for both initiating the RFS process and informing a cybersecurity service provider.
E-11. JFHQ-DODIN has directive authority for cyberspace operations to conduct DCO-IDM globally on the
DODIN. JFHQ-DODIN provides situational awareness to USCYBERCOM regarding all DCO-IDM
missions. JFHQ-DODIN also have tactical control of all Service cyberspace component commands for
DODIN operations and DCO-IDM only. JFHQ-DODIN has DODIN CPTs that conduct DCO-IDM;
however, their primary focus is generally on monitoring and implementing proactive DCO-IDM to mitigate
cyberspace threats on the DODIN globally.
Note. Initiating DCO-IDM to respond to a cyberspace threat proactively uses a top-down
approach. Proactive DCO-IDM occurs when JFHQ-DODIN identifies a cyberspace threat on the
DODIN, before receiving an RFS or being informed by a cybersecurity service provider, and
proactively deploy a CPT (either DODIN or Service) to mitigate the cyberspace threat.
E-12. If the DODIN CPTs are unavailable to satisfy the RFS, JFHQ-DODIN oversees a joint approval
process to task one of the Service cyberspace component commands to provide a Service CPT to conduct
DCO-IDM in support of the unit’s request. The assigned CPT may perform DCO-IDM remotely or collocate
with the JTF headquarters or requesting unit. When collocated with the unit, the CPT is still under the
command of its organic unit. Figure E-2, page E-5, illustrates the routing process for requesting DCO-IDM
support for corps and below.
E-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Request for Support
Figure E-2. Routing process when requesting defensive cyberspace operations-internal
defensive measures support
D EFENSIVE C YBERSPACE O PERATIONS S UPPORT FOR N ON -D EPARTMENT OF D EFENSE
F RIENDLY C YBERSPACE
E-13. An RFS requesting assistance for a threat detected on a critical network located in non-DODIN friendly
cyberspace is sent to the CNMF-HQs to employ a national CPT to conduct DCO-IDM. National CPTs only
conduct DCO-IDM in non-DODIN friendly cyberspace. Non-DODIN friendly cyberspace includes critical
networks in which mission partners perform cyberspace operations and areas of cyberspace where the
Secretary of Defense orders the DOD to protect. CNMF-HQ has directive authority for cyberspace operations
that allows it to conduct DCO-IDM in non-DODIN friendly cyberspace without authorization from
USCYBERCOM. However, CNMF-HQ is responsible for ensuring USCYBERCOM maintains situational
awareness on all DCO-IDM missions.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-5
Appendix E
D EFENSIVE C YBERSPACE O PERATIONS -R ESPONSE A CTIONS S UPPORT
E-14. CNMFs, consisting of national mission teams and NSTs assigned to CNMF-HQ, conduct DCO-RA
missions upon requests from CPTs (at any echelon) when a more progressive defensive approach goes outside
of the DODIN and into neutral and enemy cyberspace. DCO-RA may rise to the level of force resulting in
physical damage or destruction of enemy systems depending on the broader operational context. DCO-RA
tactics have many similarities to OCO, requiring coordinated military orders and careful consideration of
scope, rules of engagement, and measurable objectives. For these reasons, CNMF-HQ must attain validation
and authorization from USCYBERCOM to conduct DCO-RA missions. Figure E-3, below, illustrates the
routing process for requesting DCO-IDM support for non-DODIN friendly cyberspace and DCO-RA
support.
Figure E-3. Routing process for defensive cyberspace operations-internal defensive measures
(non-Department of Defense information network) and defensive cyberspace operations-
response actions support
E-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Request for Support
REQUESTING CYBERSPACE EFFECTS (ECHELON CORPS AND
BELOW)
E-15. CERF is the format corps and below units use to request cyberspace support. Support in response to a
CERF may come from joint cyberspace forces such as the combat mission teams, from other joint or Service
capabilities, or Service-retained cyberspace forces.
E FFECTS A PPROVAL AT E CHELONS C ORPS AND B ELOW
E-16. During the operations process at echelons corps and below, the commander and staff identify the
effects desired in and through cyberspace to support operations against specific targets. If the requesting and
higher echelons determine that a current capability is insufficient, the commander and staff approve and
processes the CERF. The routing process continues to each echelon until the CERF reaches the joint force
land component command it is converted to an RFS, and forwarded to the JTF headquarters. The CERF
approval process at echelons corps and below follow the below steps—
 Identify targets of cyberspace effects.
 Verify if organic capabilities can create desired effects.
 Approve target for cyberspace effects.
 Forward to next higher Army echelon for deconfliction and synchronization.
 Verify if other organic capabilities can create desired effects if organic cyberspace capabilities do
not exist.
 If current capabilities fulfill the requirement, synchronize operations.
 If current capabilities do not fulfill the requirement, approve target for cyberspace effects.
 Forward to next higher Army echelon for approval until CERF enters the joint process.
 Synchronize operation with cyberspace effect (if possible).
Note. The joint force land component command may require the requesting corps to convert the
CERF to an RFS format before submitting it into the joint process.
E FFECTS A PPROVAL AT E CHELONS A BOVE C ORPS
E-17. Cyberspace operations provide a means by which Army forces can achieve periods or instances of
cyberspace superiority to create effects to support the commander’s objectives. Cyberspace attack
capabilities are tailored to create specific effects and must be planned, prepared, and executed using existing
processes and procedures. Commander and staff at all echelons apply additional measures for determining
where, when, and how to use cyberspace effects.
E-18. Commanders and staff at each echelon will coordinate and collaborate regardless of whether the
cyberspace operation is directed from higher headquarters or requested from subordinate units. The Army
intelligence process, informed by the joint intelligence process, provides the necessary analysis and products
from which targets are vetted and validated, and aim points are derived. As a result of the IPB process, and
in collaboration with the joint intelligence preparation of the operational environment process, intelligence
personnel develop network topologies for enemy, adversary, and host nation technical networks.
E-19. Targets determined during the planning process are described broadly as physical and logical entities
in cyberspace consisting of one or more networked devices used by enemy and adversary actors. The G-2
may label these targets as named areas of interest and target areas of interest. Additionally, an analysis of
friendly force networks will inform the development of critical information and provide a basis for
establishing key terrain in cyberspace. Critical network nodes are key terrain in cyberspace. They include
those physical and logical entities in friendly force technical networks of such extraordinary importance that
any disruption in their operation would have debilitating effects on accomplishing the mission.
E-20. As part of CEMA, the staff will perform a key role in target network node analysis. While determining
cyberspace attack effect-types for targets and defensive measures for critical network nodes, the CEMA
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-7
Appendix E
section will prepare, submit, and track the CERF. This request will elevate above the corps echelon and
integrate into the joint targeting cycle for follow-on processing and approval.
CYBER EFFECTS REQUEST FORMAT PREPARATION
E-21. Although the requesting unit may not have the specific target network topology information, it should
provide current target information. The approval process for cyberspace effects may take longer than other
targeting capabilities. Each of the three sections in the cyber effects request are described below in bullet
format. The requesting unit provides all information from the bullet lists below to higher headquarters
through the CEMA working group or other designated targeting processes.
C YBER E FFECTS R EQUEST F ORMAT S ECTION 1 R EQUESTING U NIT I NFORMATION
E-22. Section 1 of the CERF requests the following unit information—
 Supported Major Command . Enter the major command authorized to validate and prioritize the
CERF. For Army units at corps level and below, this entry will commonly include the geographic
or functional combatant command.
 Date . Enter the date the requesting unit submitted the CERF to higher headquarters.
 Time Sent . Enter the time the requesting united submitted the CERF to higher headquarters.
 Requesting Unit . Enter the name of the requesting unit.
 By . Enter the rank, last, and the first name of the requesting unit’s point of contact that timestamped and processed the CERF.
 Point of Contact . Enter the rank, last, and the first name of the requesting unit’s point of contact.
Also, enter the phone number and e-mail.
 Classification . Enter the overall classification of the document. Ensure classification markings
are applied to each section and supporting documentation.
C YBER E FFECTS R EQUEST F ORMAT S ECTION 2 S UPPORTED O PERATION I NFORMATION
E-23. Section 2 of the CERF requests the following supported operation information—
 Supported OPLAN/CONPLAN/Order . Describe key details within the plan that the requested
cyberspace attack will support.
 Supported Mission Statement . Describe the unit’s essential task(s) and the purpose that the
requested effect(s) will support.
 Supported Commander’s Intent . Describe key information within the commander’s intent that
the requested effect(s) will support.
 Supported Commander’s End State . Describe key information within the commander’s end
state that the requested effect(s) will support.
 Supported Concept of Operations . Describe key information within the concept of operations
that the requested effect(s) will support.
 Supported Objective (strategic, operational, and tactical) . Describe the supported objective(s)
that the requested effect(s) will directly support.
 Supported Tactical Objective/Task . Describe the tactical objectives and tasks that the requested
effect(s) will directly or indirectly support.
C YBER E FFECTS R EQUEST F ORMAT S ECTION 3 C OMPUTER N ETWORK O PERATIONS
E-24. Section 3 of the CERF requests the following computer network operations and specific information—
 Type of Target .
  - Indicate _scheduled_ if specific dates, times, and or supporting conditions are known.

  - Indicate _on-call_ if trigger events or supporting conditions are known.

 Target Priority .
E-8 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Request for Support
  - Indicate _emergency_ if the target requires immediate action. Indicate _priority_ if the target

requires a degree of urgency.
  - Indicate _routine_ if the target does not require immediate action or a degree of urgency beyond

standard processing.
 Target Name . Enter the name of the target as codified in the Modernized Integrated Database.
 Target Location .
  - Provide the target location

  - Disregard if the request is for DCO-IDM.

 Target Description .
  - Provide the target description.

  - Describe the network node(s) wherein specific activities are to support DCO-IDM.

 Desired Effect .
  - Enter deny, degrade, disrupt, destroy, or manipulate for OCO.

  - Provide timing as _less than 96 hours_, _96 hours to 90 days_, or _greater than 90 days_ .

 Target Function . Enter target(s) primary function and additional functions if known.
 Target Significance . Describe why the target(s) is important to the enemy’s or adversary’s target
system(s) or value in addition to its functions and expectations.
 Target Details . Describe additional information about the target(s) if known. This information
should include any relevant device information such as type, number of users; activity; friendly
actors in the area of operations; and surrounding/adjacent/parallel devices.
 Concept of Cyberspace Operations .
  - Describe how the requested effect(s) would contribute to the commander’s objectives and

overall operations concept.
  - Include the task, purpose, method, and end state.

  - Describe the intelligence collection plan and specific assessment plan if known.

  - Provide a reference to key directives and orders.

 Target Expectation Statement . According to CJCSI 3370.01C, Enclosure D describes how the
requested effect(s) will impact the target system(s). This description must address the following
questions.
  - How will the target system be affected if the target’s function is neutralized, delayed,

disrupted, or degraded? (Two examples are operational impact and psychological impact.)
  - What is the estimated degree of impact on the target system(s)?

  - What is the functional recuperation time estimated for the target system(s) if the target’s

function is neutralized, delayed, disrupted, or degraded?
  - What distinct short-term or long-term military or political advantage/disadvantage do we

expect if the target’s function is neutralized, delayed, disrupted, or degraded?
  - What is the expected enemy or adversary reaction to affecting the target’s function?

SECTION II – REQUESTING AIRBORNE SUPPORT
E-25. Typically, Army units at corps and below have the organic capabilities to conduct EW within their
assigned AO. The joint force commander typically delegates electromagnetic attack control authority to
subordinate commanders conducting EW missions within their assigned AO. Commanders must ensure EW
has been integrated and synchronized across the staff and according to the higher commander’s guidance
parameters.
E-26. Units may require an EW capability not organically available or additional EW assets to meet
requirements identified during the targeting cycle or target development process. The commander and the
CEWO request augmentation through a higher, adjacent, or lower headquarters to meet requirements. This
section describes procedures for requesting airborne cyberspace and EA support. It also discusses the use of
the five-line electromagnetic attack request for immediate airborne EA.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-9
Appendix E
AIRBORNE ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK SUPPORT
E-27. In a joint environment, Army units can request an airborne cyberspace attack, EA or ES. Targeting
using airborne assets for cyberspace and EA can be used for both deliberate and dynamic targets. In this
instance, the unit submits DD Form 1972 (Joint Tactical Air Strike Request), accompanied by an airborne
cyberspace attack, electromagnetic attack, or electromagnetic support request tool. Each of these requests
have unique information requirements and request flows. The requesting unit’s fires support element adds
the target to its target nomination list. The target is also added to the joint integrated prioritized target list at
the JTF headquarters and forwarded to the joint force air component command with its assigned DD Form
1972 (Joint Tactical Air Strike Request) number (see ATP 3-09.32). Once the joint force air component
command approves the Joint Tactical Air Strike Request, the request is forwarded to the air operations center
to execute the attack.
E-28. Table E-1, below, is an example of the request tool used to request an airborne EA or ES and
accompanies a DD Form 1972 (Joint Tactical Air Strike Request) (see page E-12).
Table E-1. Airborne cyberspace attack, electromagnetic attack, or electromagnetic support
request tool
E-10 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Request for Support
Figure E-4, below, illustrates a DD Form 1972 (Joint Tactical Air Strike Request).
Figure E-4. Joint tactical airstrike request form.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-11
Appendix E
E-29. The air operations center is responsible for overseeing the employment of airborne EA assets on the
air tasking order. Airborne EA assets provide friendly forces with options to mitigate threats and give
commanders options for targeting. Multiple configurations and capabilities exist for airborne EA to mitigate
targets in land, sea, and air domains. See ATP 3-60.1 for a list of available airborne EA capabilities and
configurations. The air operations center is the primary contact to determine in-flight capability for targeting.
ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK REQUEST
E-30. Dynamic targeting is targeting that prosecutes targets identified too late or not selected for action in
time to be included in deliberate targeting. Dynamic targeting is normally employed in current operations
planning because the nature and timeframe associated with current operations typically requires more
immediate responsiveness than is achieved in deliberate targeting (JP 3-60). Dynamic targeting is used for
targets of opportunity that includes unscheduled targets and unanticipated targets. When immediate airborne
EA is required for deliberate targeting, for example, when a ground maneuver unit requires jamming enemy
communications before engagement, a unit can request support using an EA request. Units also submit an
EA request for EA support when a mission cannot pre-plan due to some operations’ immediate nature. The
EA request prepares the aircrew providing EA support (see ATP 3-09.32). The JTF headquarters, the joint
force land component command, the joint force air component command, and the air operations center must
collaboratively plan airborne EA before an operation. This planning and coordination provides the joint force
air component command the necessary time to identify and prepare an electronic combat squadron that will
remain on standby throughout the mission. Figure E-5 on page E-13 depicts an EA request.
E-12 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Request for Support
Figure E-5. Electromagnetic attack request.
Note. The electromagnetic attack request is the common format for requesting airborne EA
support. The CAOC Non-Kinetic Operations Center may require the use of a different requesting
procedure for immediate EA support. The JTF headquarters and its subordinate units must become
familiar with the standardized EA requesting format established by the CAOC Non-Kinetic
Operations Center or the CCMD before requesting EA support. Additionally, a tactical air control
party or joint terminal attack controller may handle electromagnetic attack requests because of its
uniqueness and necessity for the particular tactical experience required.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 E-13