Misconfiguration drives the majority of incidents
Sophos believes that the vast majority of security incidents involving cloud
computing platforms happen as a result of misconfiguration. This isn't
usually deliberate. The platforms themselves are so complex, and change so
frequently, it's often difficult to understand the ramifications or consequences
of toggling a specific setting in an Amazon S3 bucket, for example.
Figure 15: Sophos Cloud Optix highlights potential misconfiguration issues with cloud services and virtual appliances
And because a single cloud computing administrator can quickly propagate
configuration changes to an organization's entire set of computing
buckets, configuration changes that lead to inadvertently exposing
sensitive data to the world are becoming increasingly common.
Large data breaches involving misconfigured cloud computing storage are fast
becoming a common occurrence. Breaches of this nature have hit companies
as diverse as Netflix, the automaker Ford, and TD Bank in the past year, when a
cloud backup provider used by them (and many other companies) inadvertently
left a massive storage repository (known as a 'data lake') open to the world.
A security researcher earlier this year serendipitously discovered several
Amazon S3 buckets belonging to the backup provider. The buckets
contained massive repositories of those companies' email archives,
and entire backups of employees' OneDrive storage accounts.
December 2019 19
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
The data, which had been in storage since 2014, contained extremely sensitive
business reports, administrator passwords, and HR documents about employees.
It remains unknown whether those backups had been accessed by individuals
or groups with malevolent intent prior to the discovery by the researchers.
Incidents such as these are becoming more common as companies
take to heart the pressing need to keep secure backups of sensitive
data, as a hedge against threats such as ransomware.
Having visibility into the consequences of seemingly-innocuous configuration
changes, as well as the ability to monitor for malicious or suspicious
activity, are the quickest ways Sophos has found to do the most good.