Ads & PUAs increasingly indistinguishable from malware
Malicious advertisements (malvertising) remain a major source of threats to a range of devices. We recently
delved into two current trends in malvertising threats that fall outside the realm of malware attacks—
technical support scams using “browser locking” web pages, and ads targeting mobile devices that are
linked to fraudulent or “fleeceware” apps. Sophos classifies these as “fake alert” attacks—malvertisements
that attempt to scare their targets into taking an action that will enrich the scammers behind them.
Fig. 24. Source: SophosLabs
Technical support scams typically attempt to steer targets into providing remote access to their computers
and then convincing them to either purchase exorbitantly priced technical support software and services
or obtain targets’ credit card data for fraudulent purposes. While many of these scams have relied on direct
telemarketing calls in the past, many scam operators have moved to a “pull” model—using malicious web
advertisements that attempt to convince the user that their computers have been locked for security
reasons, and directing them to call the scammers themselves.
November 2020 29
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT
To achieve this, the scammers deploy website kits containing scripts designed to make it difficult to
navigate away from a page— including variations on the “evil cursor” (making the mouse pointer appear to
be pointing somewhere it isn’t, or rendering it invisible) and “infinite download” attacks that overwhelm the
browser—while trying to look like an alert from Microsoft or Apple. Some of the kits we found exploited a bug
SophosLabs’ offensive security team discovered in Firefox earlier this year, while others executed similar
attacks on other browsers—all of them being spread through malicious “pop-under” web ads.
Fig. 25. Source: SophosLabs
The same ad network infrastructure supporting these attacks on PC and Mac browsers also serves up
tech support scams and fake alerts that link to potentially unwanted mobile applications—including apps
claiming to be virtual private network services and “cleaner” tools advertised as removing malware, with
built-in subscription fees (and in some cases, actual Android malware). Sophos found a collection of ad
campaign servers delivering these ads, using commercial software from a Russian developer specifically
built for running such campaigns.
November 2020 30
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT