Targeting Overlap and a Pivot to Asia
News headlines repeatedly trumpet Sofacy’s foray into Western targets in
the US and Europe, especially those connected with NATO. But these
efforts only tell a portion of the Sofacy story.
Delineating groups and activity can be messy, and there appears to be
overlap in targeting efforts across varying groups in central and east asia
throughout 2017 and into 2018. Sofacy has been heavily interested in
military and foreign affairs organizations here, resulting in multiple
overlapped and competing targeting scenarios:
Mosquito Turla and Zebrocy clusters – Zebrocy clusters targeting
diplomatic and commercial organizations within Europe and Asia that
match Mosquito targeting profiling
SPLM overlap with traditional Turla – often Turla precedes SPLM
deployments
SPLM overlap with Zebrocy – Zebrocy often precedes SPLM
deployments
SPLM overlap with Danti
Currently, Sofacy targets large air-defense related commercial
organizations in China with SPLM, and moves Zebrocy focus across
Armenia, Turkey, Kazahkstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Mongolia, China, and
Japan. A previous, removed, report from another vendor claimed non
specific information about the groups’ interest in Chinese universities, but
that report has been removed – most likely detections were related to
students’ and researchers’ scanning known collected samples and any
“incidents” remain unconfirmed and unknown. On the other hand, this
Chinese conglomerate designs and manufactures aerospace and air
defense technologies, among many other enterprises. And here, an
interest in military technologies is certainly within Sofacy purview.
So, even more interesting than the shift eastward and other targeting
overlap, is that the specific target system in China was previously a Grey
Lambert target. The Sofacy modules at this system appeared to never
touch disk, and resemble the Linux Fysbis code. Only one maintained the
Filesystem.dll code, while another maintained ProcessRetranslator.dll
code. However, it is unusual that a full SPLM backdoor was not detected
on this system, nor was any powershell loader script. Because the
injection source remains unidentified on such a unique system, we might
speculate on what is going on here:

Sofacy attackers had recorded a previous Grey Lambert remote

session and replayed the communication after discovering this host,
essentially compromising the Grey Lambert module on the system to
gain access and later injecting SPLM modules


Grey Lambert attackers inserted false flag and reduced SPLM modules


a new and unrecognized, full variant of SPLM attempted to inject


module code into memory and deleted itself

an unknown new powershell script or legitimate but vulnerable web

app was exploited to load and execute this unusual SPLM code
In all likelihood, the last option is accurate.