visualizing the connections визуализация связей
Now that we have analyzed thousands of samples for code similarities, it is time to gather all the
found connections in one visual place. Our current situation is that we basically have two lists –

A list of all the samples

Sha256, Label, Actor

A list of found connections

sha256_sampleA, sha256_sampleB, # of shared genes
This is all we need in order to create an initial graph of connections, in which every sample is a
node (vertex), and a connection between two samples is an edge. We created the initial graph
using the networkx library for Python and produced a . gexf file that later can be used in our
favorite graph visualizer tool, Gephi.
Gephi is an open-source interactive visualization and exploration platform for all kinds of networks and com‐
plex systems, dynamic and hierarchical graphs.
GEXF (Graph Exchange XML Format) is a language for describing complex networks structures, their asso‐
ciated data and dynamics.
Source: Gephi website
https://research.checkpoint.com/russianaptecosystem/ 4/14
10/1/2019 Mapping the connections inside Russia's APT Ecosystem - Check Point Research
By loading the produced file to Gephi, we begin with a complex and crowded web of connections.
In order to make it look clearer, we’d need to apply some layout algorithms to it.
Figure 1: the initial graph as created by Gephi
Without getting too deep into Graph Theory and Graph Drawing, layout algorithms are
responsible for the way that vertices and edges are arranged in the graph. This has a direct effect
on the aesthetics, understandability, and usability of the graph. For our graph, we chose a ForceDirected layout algorithm, or more specifically – Fruchterman-Reingold algorithm.
https://research.checkpoint.com/russianaptecosystem/ 5/14
10/1/2019 Mapping the connections inside Russia's APT Ecosystem - Check Point Research
Figure 2 : The graph of connections after applying layout algorithms
Now we can notice some big clusters that are created and bridges between two or more clusters
like this. Circular and complete-linkage clusters are most likely to be collections of samples of the
same family. Two clusters that are joined together are most likely to belong to the same family
(different variants) or to the same ancestry. There are many clusters, big ones, and smaller ones.
The different sizes indicate the number of nodes in the cluster. This is something that can be
either relevant or irrelevant depending on the situation. We need to remember, after all, a graph
will present the data it was given with. Thus, the size of the cluster is directly affected by the
number of samples of the same family that were in our dataset. The family may indeed be a big
one, but it is possible that the samples of this family were simply more accessible for us.
Now that we have the shape of the graph, let’s add another layer – text, and colors. In our
research, we want to show connections between families and actors. Thus, for each node on the
graph, we will add a label with its name and a unique color per attributed actor.
10/1/2019 Mapping the connections inside Russia's APT Ecosystem - Check Point Research
Figure 3: Colors applied to the graph in order to make it more readable