Infrastructure Notes
Sofacy set up and maintained multiple servers and c2 for varying
durations, registering fairly recognizable domains with privacy services,
registrars that accept bitcoin, fake phone numbers, phony individual
names, and 1 to 1 email address to domain registration relationships.
Some of this activity and patterns were publicly disclosed, so we expect to
see more change in their process in 2018. Also, throughout the year and
in previous years, researchers began to comment publicly on Sofacy’s
fairly consistent infrastructure setup.
As always, attackers make mistakes and give away hints about what
providers and registrars they prefer. It’s interesting to note that this
version of SPLM implements communications that are fully encrypted
over HTTPS. As an example, we might see extraneous data in their
SSL/TLS certificates that give away information about their provider or
resources. Leading up to summer 2017, infrastructure mostly was created
with PDR and Internet Domain Service BS Corp, and their resellers.
Hosting mostly was provided at Fast Serv Inc and resellers, in all likelihood
related to bitcoin payment processing.
Accordingly, the server side certificates appear to be generated locally on
VPS hosts that exclusively are paid for at providers with bitcoin merchant
processing. One certificate was generated locally on what appeared to be
a HP-UX box, and another was generated on
“8569985.securefastserver[.]com” with an email address
“root@8569985.securefastserver[.]com”, as seen here for their
nethostnet[.]com domain. This certificate configuration is ignored by the
malware.
In addition to other ip data, this data point suggested that Qhoster at
https://www.qhoster[.]com was a VPS hosting reseller of choice at the
time. It should be noted that the reseller accepted Alfa Click, PayPal,
Payza, Neteller, Skrill, WebMoney, Perfect Money, Bitcoin, Litecoin,
SolidTrust Pay, CashU, Ukash, OKPAY, EgoPay, paysafecard, Alipay, MG,
Western Union, SOFORT Banking, QIWI, Bank transfer for payment.