Comprehensive protections required
The skill and persistence of malicious nation state activity increases the difficulty of detecting and protecting
against these threats. Their impact can be wide ranging and highly damaging. These adversaries are well funded,
employ techniques of tremendous breadth and sophistication, and are motivated by objectives of national
significance—which might lead to their compromising networks for unexpected purposes. More than other
adversaries, nation state attackers target individuals specifically for access to their connections, communications,
and information. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
[Defense-in-depth strategies against nation state adversaries should include educating employees on how ]
to avoid being targeted themselves. Enabling MFA on all personal or work accounts is a critical security practice.
This best practice for the home environment, preventing attacks including those that could result in financial
loss, will also help to protect corporate assets from attacks originating from personal email addresses, file
sharing services, and social media.
While nation state attacks are often sophisticated or can deploy zero-day vulnerabilities to gain access to
networks, defense-in-depth strategies and proactive monitoring can greatly reduce the actor’s dwell time on
a network, potentially enabling disruption of their activities before they reach their goals. Above and beyond
enabling MFA, IT departments should prioritize steps to mitigate lateral movement by attackers; specifically,
credential hygiene and network segmentation. To limit the damage of data exfiltration, information rights
management can be applied to files. Building protective controls into your network will raise the threshold for
attackers, improving your organization’s ability to detect anomalous activity in the environment.
Go to Actionable Learnings
Learn more:
Microsoft Threat Protection stops attack sprawl and
auto-heals enterprise assets with built-in intelligence
and automation 2020/02/20
Microsoft takes court action against fourth nation-
state cybercrime group 2019/12/30
MITRE ATT&CK APT 29 evaluation proves Microsoft
Threat Protection provides a deeper end-to-end view
of advanced threats 2020/04/21
The Verge: Microsoft has warned 10,000 people that
nation-state hackers are targeting them 2019/07/18Icon representing the Nation State Threats chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY