DPRK
SECTOR HIGHLIGHT:
FINANCE AND CRYPTOCURRENCY
In addition to
supporting currency
generation, LABYRINTH
CHOLLIMA’s targeting
of cryptocurrency
exchanges could
support espionage-
oriented efforts
designed to collect
information on users
or cryptocurrency
operations and
systems.
As in 2018, CrowdStrike Intelligence once again observed North Korean
targeting of the finance and cryptocurrency sectors in 2019. The extent of
this targeting includes activity from all named DPRK-affiliated adversaries
— from STARDUST CHOLLIMA’s breach of payment processors to smaller
scale cryptocurrency theft in VELVET CHOLLIMA’s deployment of GoldStamp
malware. LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA sustained routine operations against
cryptocurrency exchanges, and recent reporting detailed SILENT CHOLLIMA’s
use of DTrack malware to compromise ATMs in India.
Prior to 2019, RICOCHET CHOLLIMA was not reported as conducting
intrusions against this sector. However, in mid-May 2019, open sources
reported that RICOCHET CHOLLIMA used a variant of Nimbus malware against
suspected financial entities in Vietnam, Hong Kong, Russia and DPRK in late
2018. While it is unclear if this operation represented an attempt at theft of
funds, this activity, if accurate, would represent a significant expansion in the
adversary’s known target scope.
Taken together, these operations strongly suggest that all DPRK groups
represent some level of threat to the financial sector. Not only are these
adversaries engaging in small-scale currency generation activity, which
likely funds their own operations, they are also possibly contributing to
DPRK’s ability to evade international sanctions and finance its foreign and
domestic policy initiatives. In addition to supporting currency generation,
LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA’s targeting of cryptocurrency exchanges could
support espionage-oriented efforts designed to collect information on users
or cryptocurrency operations and systems. DPRK has been developing its
own cryptocurrency to further circumvent sanctions. Similarly, RICOCHET
CHOLLIMA’s targeting of financial entities could also represent efforts
designed to obtain information on the finances of a person or organization of
interest to DPRK’s intelligence services.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020