Conclusion
This situation has not developed overnight. These attacks have been going on for years:
many reports detail intrusions going back to 2003 and earlier. It is quite possible that the
targets of early attacks were merely foreign governments and dissidents and that the range
of targets only broadened with the opening of the Chinese economy and an increased
demand for intelligence to support business growth and projects of national importance.
The more success the attackers had, the more that demand grew. While China continues to
carry out cyber attacks on companies throughout the rest of the world and these attacks
continue either unnoticed or unpunished, there is no incentive for China to stop. The more
that stolen data is exploited for the benefit of companies and the government, the greater
the incentive to continue with these operations.
Governments and large companies do not appear to be making much headway in solving
this problem. For large corporations in the West, where there is a tendency to focus more on
the short term and on personal achievement rather than the long term advancement of the
state, the potential riches which trade with China offers are so large that turning a blind eye
to data theft may seem a reasonable price to pay. Governments dare not risk isolation from
China for economic and political reasons. Norway has recently been shut out of Chinese
relations after awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to a jailed Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo [20] . Its
trade links with China are minimal, so it can afford to do this, but few other countries would
feel able to do the same. A combination of this reluctance to act, chronic under-investment
in IT and a lack of user education about how to spot the warning signs of a potential attack
means companies and organisations are extremely vulnerable.
In order to start rectifying the problem there is a need in the first instance to understand the
problem. There needs to be an acceptance that this problem is not going to go away, that
this is a business risk not at IT issue. Doing business with China carries extra risk in terms of data
security and traditional security products are unable to defend your data against this type
of attack. Investigation of compromises needs to be thorough and conducted by people
familiar with this problem and not simply the technical aspects of it. Above all sensitive data
must be segregated – it is not possible to defend everything.
The reason targeted attacks pose such a dangerous threat is that these are not viruses
which simply spread and act according to a set of defined rules in the software. There are
human beings directing these attacks in a much more active way. They have been given
specific duties and will not stop what they are doing until someone tells them to do so.
If your data is of interest today, it will still be of interest tomorrow. If you have been attacked
once and somehow managed to stop it, you have only stopped one instance of the attack,
not the attack as a whole. The malware used simply provides a foothold in the network, an
initial point of access through which other tools can be uploaded to allow attackers access
over the longer term, to navigate through the network until they find the data of interest to
them. If one technique doesn’t work, they will adapt their methods and raise their game
until they have success.
It may be that one day western governments will decide that ‘if you can’t beat them, join
them’ and develop similar capabilities to be used against foreign governments and
20 http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-11505164
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 21 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data
companies. We can only speculate as to how China might react to the large-scale
targeting of its own companies and institutions. As for now, we have limited evidence of
large companies failing as a direct result of the attacks, though there seems to be
consensus that Chinese intrusions at least contributed to the downfall of one time telecoms
giant Nortel [21] . We do not yet know how many others may follow.
21 http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/02/15/nortel-hacking-shields-as-it-
happens.html
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 22 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data