Integration through the Operations Process
This chapter discusses how the cyberspace electromagnetic activities section integrates
cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare through the operations process. It
outlines the four activities of the operations process and how the working group
contributes to each activity. This chapter details how the cyberspace electromagnetic
activities section and members of the working group synchronize cyberspace
operations and electromagnetic warfare with intelligence preparation of the battlefield,
information collection, targeting, risk management, and knowledge management
processes.
SECTION I – THE OPERATIONS PROCESS
4-1. At corps and below, the planning, synchronization, and integration of cyberspace operations and EW
are conducted by the CEMA section, in collaboration with key staff members that make up the CEMA working
group. The CEMA section is an element of the G-3 or S-3 and works closely with members of the CEMA
working group to ensure unity of effort to meet the commander’s objectives. Integration and synchronization
of cyberspace operations and EW—
 Unifies Army and joint forces’ effort to engineer, manage, secure, and defend the DODIN.
 Ensures information collected in cyberspace and the EMS is routed to the appropriate staff to
provide the commander and staff for situational awareness of the OE, targeting, and as potential
intelligence.
 Ensures the efficient use of cyberspace operations and EW assets for information collection and
targeting.
 Ensures appropriate coordination between Army, joint, unified action partners and host nations
before employing cyberspace operations and EW.
4-2. The operations process includes the major command and control activities performed during
operations: planning, preparing, executing, and continuously assessing the operation (ADP 5-0). The operations
process is the Army’s framework for the organization and implementation of command and control. The CEMA
working group enables the commander with the ability to understand cyberspace and the EMOE. With this
understanding, the commander can better visualize and describe an operation’s end state and operational
approach; this in turn enables the commander to make and articulate decisions, direct, lead, and assess
operations. The commander and staff at a corps or division must align the commander’s concept of operations
with adjacent corps and divisions, joint forces, and unified action partners when conducting large-scale combat
operations to ensure unity of effort.
4-3. Commanders, staff, and subordinate headquarters use the operations process to organize efforts,
integrate the warfighting functions across multiple domains, and synchronize forces to accomplish missions.
Army forces plan, prepare, execute, and assess cyberspace operations and EW in collaboration with joint forces
and unified action partners as required. Army commanders and staffs will likely coordinate or interact with
joint forces to facilitate cyberspace operations and EW. For this reason, commanders and staff should have an
awareness of joint planning systems and processes that enable cyberspace operations and EW. Some of these
systems and processes include—
 The Joint Planning Process (See JP 5-0).
 Adaptive Planning (See JP 5-0).
 Review and approval process for cyberspace operations (Refer to Appendixes A and C).
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-1
Chapter 4
 Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations Planning Process (See JP 3-85).
PLANNING
4-4. Planning is the art and science of understanding a situation, envisioning a desired future, and laying
out effective ways of bringing that future about (ADP 5-0). Commanders apply the art of command and the
science of control to ensure cyberspace operations and EW support the concept of operations. Whether
cyberspace operations and EW are planned and directed from higher headquarters or requested from tactical
units, timely staff actions and commanders’ involvement coupled with continued situational awareness of
cyberspace and the EMS are critical for mission success.
4-5. The Army design methodology and military decision-making process are two planning methods used
by Army headquarters. Members of the CEMA working group must understand these two methods fully. See
Appendix A for a detailed discussion on how CEMA integrates cyberspace operations and EW within Army
design methodology and the military decision-making process.
4-6. The Army design methodology consists of more adductive and systemic reasoning for complex, illformed problems. The military decision-making process consists of a more deductive and analytical approach
to planning and commanders at corps and below are likely to employ military decision-making process more
frequently than Army design methodology. Commanders, however, may use a different approach to planning
or combine approaches. Regardless of the planning approach, commanders and staff must integrate cyberspace
operations and EW throughout the planning activity. During planning, commanders and staff should seek to—
 Understand situations and develop solutions to problems. The commander and staff build an
understanding of the cyberspace domain, information aspects of the OE, and the EMOE within
the assigned AO. Commanders and staff develop a situational understanding of the impact
cyberspace operations and EW effects can cause throughout multiple domains and develop
solutions to resolve issues that might negatively affect neutral entities and friendly forces.
 Task-organize the force and prioritize efforts. The commander and staff task-organizes
cyberspace and EW capabilities and implement priority of support efforts. A priority of support is
a priority set by the commander to ensure a subordinate unit has support in accordance with its
relative importance to accomplish the mission (ADP 5-0).
 Direct, coordinate, and synchronize action. The commander and staff use this planning function
to direct, coordinate, and synchronize cyberspace operations, EW, and spectrum management
operations with missions conducted through intelligence operations, IO operations, and the
targeting process.
 Anticipate events and adapt to changing circumstances. The commander and staff anticipate
potential attacks by threats in cyberspace and the EMS and adapts to the uncertain nature of
operations by implementing active and passive countermeasures associated with cyberspace
security and EP. The commander and staff use such tools as decision points, branches, and sequels
to adapt to changing circumstances (See ADP 5-0).
4-7. The IPB process begins and is synchronized with the operations process during planning and continues
throughout the operations process. During the IPB process, the G-2 or S-2 supports cyberspace operations and
EW by providing the commander and staff with analyzed intelligence on the operational and mission variables
in an area of interest to determine conditions relevant to those operations. This information assists the
commander and staff in understanding the OE, identifying opportunities for cyberspace operations and EW,
and determining appropriate COAs.
4-8. During planning, the fires support element uses the commander’s intent and concept of operations to
develop a fire support plan. The fire support plan is a plan that addresses each means of fire support available.
It describes how Army indirect fires, joint fires, and target acquisition are integrated with a maneuver to
facilitate operational success (refer to FM 3-09). The fires support coordinator or support officer collaborates
with the CEWO to integrate cyberspace attacks and EA into the fire support plan.
4-9. The final product of planning is an operation plan (OPLAN) or operation order (OPORD). The OPLAN
is developed by the commander and staff well in advance of execution and becomes an OPORD once directed
for implementation based on a specific time or event. The CEWO is responsible for completing Annex C,
Appendix 12, and upon request, assists the G-6 or S-6 with Annex H, Appendixes 1 and 6 of the OPLAN or
4-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
OPORD. The CEWO is also responsible for making updates, changes, and modifications to Annex C, Appendix
12 and assisting in updating Annex H, Appendixes 1 and 6 as appropriate, for fragmentary order(s)
(FRAGORDs) (See Appendix A for Army design methodology, military decision-making process, and CEMA
products for orders).
PREPARATION
4-10. Preparation consists of those activities performed by units and Soldiers to improve their ability to
execute an operation (ADP 5.0). Preparation activities include initiating information collection, DODIN
operations preparation, rehearsals, training, and inspections. Preparation requires the commander, staff, unit,
and Soldiers’ active engagement to ensure the force is ready to execute operations.
4-11. Preparation activities typically begin during planning and continue into execution. At corps and below,
subordinate units’ that are task-organized to employ cyberspace operations and EW capabilities (identified in
the OPLAN or OPORD) conduct preparation activities to improve the force’s opportunity for success during
operations. Commanders drive preparation activities through leading and assessing. Using the following
preparation functions, commanders and staff can—
 Improve situational understanding. Commanders, staff, and subordinate units continue to refine
knowledge of cyberspace and the EMOE within the assigned AO, including the improved insight
on how the use of cyberspace and the EMS could affect operations across multiple domains.
 Develop a shared understanding of the plan. Commanders, staff, and tasked subordinate units
develop a shared understanding of the plan (described in the OPLAN or OPORD) by conducting
home-station training and combat training center(s). These training events provide the perfect
opportunity for subordinate commanders, leaders, and Soldiers to execute the developed plan in a
controlled environment and to identify issues in the developing plan that require modification.
 Train and become proficient in critical tasks. Through rehearsals and training, subordinate units
gain and refine skills in those individual and collective tasks essential to the success of cyberspace
operations and EW. Commanders also allocate training time for anticipated and unanticipated
events and circumstances.
 Integrate the force. Commanders allocate preparation time to put the new task-organized force
into effect. Integrating the force includes detaching units, moving cyberspace and EW assets, and
receiving and integrating new units and Soldiers into the force. Task-organized forces require
preparation time to learn the gaining unit’s policies and standards and to understand their role in
the overall plan. The gaining unit requires time to assess the task-organized forces’ cyberspace
and EW capabilities and limitations and integrate new capabilities.
 Ensure the positioning of forces and resources. Positioning and task organization occur
concurrently. Commanders ensure cyberspace and EA assets consist of the right personnel and
equipment using pre-operations checks while ensuring those assets are in the right place at the
right time.
EXECUTION
4-12. Execution is the act of putting a plan into action by applying combat power to accomplish the mission
(ADP 5-0). The commander, staff, and subordinate commander’s focus on translating decisions made during
planning and preparing into actions. Commanders conduct OCO and EA to project combat power throughout
cyberspace and the EMS, conduct DCO and EP to protect friendly forces and systems, and conduct
reconnaissance through cyberspace and the EMS to gather combat information for continuing situational
awareness.
4-13. Commanders should understand that detailed planning provides a reasonable forecast of execution but
must also be aware that situations may change rapidly in cyberspace and the EMOE. During execution,
commanders take concerted action to seize, retain, and exploit operational initiative while accepting risk.
4-14. Operational initiative is the setting or tempo and terms of action throughout an operation (ADP 3-0).
By presenting the enemy with multiple cross-domain dilemmas, including cyberspace and the EMS,
commanders force the enemy to react continuously, driving the enemy into positions of disadvantage.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-3
Chapter 4
Commanders can use cyberspace attacks and EA to force enemy commanders to abandon their preferred
courses of action and make costly mistakes. Commanders retain the initiative by synchronizing cyberspace
attacks and EA as fires combined with other elements of combat power to apply unrelenting pressure on the
enemy using continuously changing combinations of combat power at a tempo an enemy cannot effectively
counter.
4-15. Commanders and staff continue to use information collection and electromagnetic reconnaissance
assets to identify enemy attempts to regain the initiative. Information collected can be used to readjust targeting
priorities and fire support plans, including cyberspace attacks and EA, to keep adversaries on the defensive.
4-16. Once friendly forces seize the initiative, they immediately exploit it through continued operations to
accelerate the enemy’s defeat. Defeat is to render a force incapable of achieving its objective (ADP 3-0).
Commanders can use cyberspace attacks and EA to disrupt enemy attempts to reconstitute forces and exacerbate
enemy disorganization by targeting adversary command and control and sensing nodes.
ASSESSMENT
4-17. Assessment is the determination of the progress toward accomplishing a task, creating an effect, or
achieving an objective (JP 3-0). The commander and staff continuously assess cyberspace operations and EW
to determine if they have resulted in the desired effect. Assessment activities support decision making by
ascertaining the progress of the operation to develop and refine plans.
4-18. Assessment both precedes and guides the other activities of the operations process, and there is no
single way to conduct it. Commanders develop an effective assessment plan built around the unique challenges
of the operations. A Commander develops an assessment plan by—
 Developing the assessment approach (planning).
 Developing the assessment plan (planning).
 Collecting information and intelligence (execution).
 Analyzing information and intelligence (execution).
 Communicating feedback and recommendations (execution).
 Adapting plans or operations (planning and execution).
Note. For more information on the operations process, see ADP 5-0.
SECTION II –INTEGRATING PROCESSES
4-19. Commanders and staff integrate warfighting functions and synchronize the force to adapt to changing
circumstances throughout the operations process. The CEMA section aligns cyberspace operations and EW
with the operations process and its associated integrating processes to identify threats in cyberspace and the
EMS, to target and attack enemy cyberspace and EMS enabled systems, and to support the warfighting
functions. Figure 4-1 on page 4-5 illustrates the integration and synchronization of CEMA throughout the
operations process using the various integrating processes.
4-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
4-20. The operations process is the principal essential activity conducted by a commander and staff. The
commander and staff integrate and synchronize CEMA with five key integrating processes throughout the
operations process (see figure 4-1). These integrating processes are—
 IPB.
 Information collection.
 Targeting.
 Risk management.
 Knowledge management.
Figure 4-1. The operations process and integrating processes
INTELLIGENCE PREPARATION OF THE BATTLEFIELD
4-21. To integrate and synchronize the tasks and missions of information collection, the G-2 or S-2 leads the
staff through the IPB process. Intelligence preparation of the battlefield is the systematic process of analyzing
the mission variables of enemy, terrain, weather, and civil considerations in an area of interest to determine
their effect on operations (ATP 2-01.3). IPB assists in developing an in-depth understanding of relevant aspects
of the OE, including threats.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-5
Chapter 4
4-22. Integrating the IPB process into the operations process is essential in supporting the commander’s
ability to understand the OE and visualize operations throughout the operations process. Integrating the IPB
process and the operations process is an enabler that allows commanders to design and conduct operations
continuously. Integrating the IPB process and the operations process provides the information and intelligence
required to plan, prepare, execute, and assess operations. Four steps in the IPB process are—
 Define the operational environment.
 Describe environment effects on operations.
 Evaluate the threat.
 Determine threat COAs.
4-23. The IPB process begins during planning activities and continues throughout the operations process.
The IPB process results in IPB products used for developing friendly COAs and decision points for the
commander throughout planning activities. IPB products are critical to planning cyberspace operations and
EW.
D EFINE THE O PERATIONAL E NVIRONMENT
4-24. The G-2 or S-2 uses the IPB process to define cyberspace and the EMOE within an OE. Defining the
cyberspace and the EMOE enables the commander and staff to visualize both friendly and enemy cyberspace
and EW assets through the three layers of cyberspace and the EMS. The CEMA section supports the IPB
process by assisting the G-2 or S-2 with developing and managing the electromagnetic order of battle.
4-25. The G-2 or S-2 is responsible for synchronizing available SIGINT assets. Combat information attained
through cyberspace operations and EW assists the G-2 or S-2 in defining the OE. Additionally, the G-2 or S-2
may combine the intelligence disciplines with criminal intelligence to gather cyberspace and EW-related
information to define the OE fully.
4-26. The G-2 or S-2 uses intelligence gathered through information collection to develop graphic AO
overlays that include cyberspace and the EMS-related terrain aspects throughout the assigned AO. Graphic AO
overlays of cyberspace may depict the physical layer of cyberspace more easily than the logical or cyberpersona layers. Attaining information on threat cyberspace capabilities at the logical and cyber-persona layers
occurs through SIGINT, criminal intelligence, or cyberspace exploitation.
4-27. The G3 should ensure information gathered by operational systems, platforms, and sensors, such as
those used to monitor friendly networks during the execution of DODIN operations, is formally disseminated
and made accessible to the intelligence community. This is a critical component necessary to define the
operational environment in support of cyberspace operations, as well as to enable the G2 or S2 to evaluate the
threat.
D ESCRIBE E NVIRONMENTAL E FFECTS ON C YBERSPACE AND THE E LECTROMAGNETIC
S PECTRUM
4-28. As a result of answering IRs received from the CEMA section, the G-2 or S-2 defines the types of
threats and threat cyberspace and EW capabilities while also defining environmental effects. It is essential to
consider how environmental effects will impact friendly and enemy operations, including those that may affect
cyberspace and the EMS. Such considerations include terrain, weather, light, illumination data, and civil.
Terrain analysis allows the commander to understand the terrain’s impact on cyberspace operations and EW.
The CEMA working group conducts cyberspace and the EMS-related terrain analysis by employing traditional
methods and examining the five military aspects of terrain when determining threat courses of action:
 Observation and fields of fire.
 Avenues of approach.
 Key terrain.
 Obstacles.
 Cover and concealment.
4-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
4-29. Civil considerations are applied by cross walking with the operational variables. The G-2 or S-2
includes such civil considerations as cellular phone coverage, internet service providers, and electricity
distribution for industrial, commercial, and residential areas.
4-30. Threats in cyberspace and the EMS and all intelligence gathered and analyzed for environmental
effects are incorporated into such IPB products as the threat overlays, threat description tables, terrain effects
matrices, terrain analysis, or modified combined obstacle overlay, and assessments.
E VALUATE THE T HREAT
4-31. In collaboration with the CEMA section, the G-2 or S-2 determines threat cyberspace and EW
capabilities, doctrinal principles, and tactics, techniques, and procedures used by the enemy in the assigned AO.
An enemy’s use of the cyberspace and the EMS to accomplish or support their objectives vary. Using input
from the various intelligence disciplines, The G-2 or S-2 and CEMA section evaluate the threat, create threat
models, develop broad threat COAs, and identify enemy high value targets (HVTs). When creating the threat
model, the G-2 or S-2 incorporates cyberspace and EMS consideration to determine how the enemy integrates
and uses cyberspace and EW capabilities.
4-32. The enemy will likely have cyberspace and EW capabilities that operate across all warfighting
functions. To increase situational awareness, the G-2 or S-2 should identify enemy cyberspace and EMS assets
employed in support of each warfighting function. The G-2 or S-2 also evaluates neutral actors and adversaries
conducting operations in cyberspace and the EMS throughout the AO and forwards the information to local
and Army law enforcement or counterintelligence elements. Neutral actors and adversaries include—
 Nation-state actors.
 Transnational non-state actors or terrorists.
 Criminal organizations or multinational cyber syndicate actors.
 Individual actors, hacktivists, or small groups.
 Insider threats.
 Autonomous systems, software, and malicious code.
4-33. Data gathered by evaluating the threat helps develop threat models that depict how enemy forces
typically execute operations, including threat characteristics on how they use cyberspace and the EMS. The
threat model also describes how enemy forces historically reacted to various types of cyberspace attacks and
EA in similar circumstances relative to OE and overall operation.
4-34. In addition to the threat model, the G-2 or S-2 creates threat capability statements that align with the
threat model and include options or other supporting operations the enemy can use to affect the accomplishment
of the friendly forces’ mission. Threat models guide the development of threat COAs.
D ETERMINE T HREAT C OURSES OF A CTION
4-35. The G-2 or S-2 uses data gathered through threat evaluation to identify and develop the full range of
COAs an enemy has available. The G-2 or S-2 collaborates with the CEMA section to develop threat COAs
regarding an enemy’s capabilities in cyberspace and the EMS. The G-2 or S-2 provides the G-3 or S-3 with
information and intelligence necessary for developing friendly COAs to counter those available threats COAs
and influence friendly operations. The G-2 or S-2 also collaborates with the CEMA section to develop
countermeasures to threat COAs in cyberspace and the EMS. Each threat COA includes identified cyberspace
attack and EA-related HVTs such as nodes, command and control centers, communications towers, satellites,
internet service providers, fiber optic lines, and local power substations.
4-36. When developing friendly COAs related to countering the enemy’s capabilities in cyberspace and the
EMS, the G-2 or S-2, in collaboration with the CEMA section, incorporates such considerations as the
adversary’s historical use of cyberspace and the EMS and the types of cyberspace and EMS-related operations
they have conducted. The G-2 or S-2 assists the CEMA section in determining the unit’s specific cyberspace
and EW assets that can produce desired effects when engaging HVTs.
4-37. The G-2 or S-2 should understand that a cyberspace threat could be operating outside of the unit’s
assigned AO. An enemy can use proxies worldwide beyond a unit’s area of interest. Development of threat
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-7
Chapter 4
COAs results from first identifying HVTs and HPTs. Threat COAs include templates and event matrices that
identify potential objectives, named areas of interest and target areas of interest. A named area of interest is the
geospatial area or systems node or link against which information that will satisfy a specific information
requirement can be collected (JP 2-01.3). A target area of interest is the geographical area where high-value
targets can be acquired and engaged by friendly forces (JP 2-01.3).
4-38. The CEMA section conducts terrain analysis to examine aspects of terrain in cyberspace and the EMS
for determining obstacles such as firewalls, port blocks, threat sensors, and jamming capabilities that require
immediate mitigation for continued operation. The CEMA section also identifies the various avenues of
approach to employ cyberspace attack and EA on enemy cyberspace and EMS capabilities. Through terrain
analysis, the CEMA identifies potential weaknesses in friendly forces’ posture in cyberspace and the EMS that
require additional cover and concealment through such techniques as electromagnetic hardening actions,
password protection, emission control, or by incorporating Internet Protocol (IP) hiding techniques.
4-39. During terrain analysis, it is important to identify key locations in cyberspace and the EMS that can
become access points. These access points provide avenues of approach or can provide observation and fields
of fire where network traffic can be monitored, intercepted, or recorded through SIGINT, cyberspace
exploitation, or ES. By identifying cyberspace and EW-related obstacles, avenues of approach, cover and
concealment, and observation and fields of fire, the CEMA section can determine locations in those aspects of
terrain to consider as key terrains. Key terrains include those major access points for observing incoming threats
and avenues for launching cyberspace attack and EA. Terrain in cyberspace and the EMS connected to critical
assets on the DODIN are considered as key terrains.
Note. For more information on the IPB process, see ATP 2-01.3.
INFORMATION COLLECTION
4-40. Information collection is an activity that synchronizes and integrates the planning and employment of
sensors and assets as well as the processing, exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of current
and future operations (FM 3-55). These sensors and assets may include cyberspace operations and EW assets
conducting cyberspace exploitation operations, electromagnetic probing, and electromagnetic reconnaissance
for information collection.
4-41. Information collection is the acquisition of information and the provision of this information to
processing elements. Information collection integrates the intelligence and operations staff functions with a
focus on answering the CCIRs, and IRs that assists the commander and staff in shaping the OE and conducting
operations. The commander drives information collection coordinated by the staff and led by the G-2 or S-2.
The following are the steps of information collection:
 Plan requirements and assess collection.
 Task and direct collection.
 Execute collection.
4-42. Information collection enables the commander to understand and visualize the operation. Information
collection identifies gaps in information that require aligning intelligence assets with cyberspace exploitation,
electromagnetic reconnaissance, and electromagnetic probing to collect data on those gaps. The decide and
detect steps of targeting also rely heavily on information collection. Enemy cyberspace capabilities identified
through information collection assist the CEMA working group in identifying potential targets and key terrain
in cyberspace.
P LAN R EQUIREMENTS AND A SSESS C OLLECTION
4-43. The G-2 or S-2 collaborates with the other staff to receive and validate IRs for collection. The CEMA
section provides the G-2 or S-2 with cyberspace and EMS-related IRs requesting information on friendly,
enemy, and neutral actors operating in the AO. The CEWO identifies all cyberspace and EMS-related IRs to
present to the commander as potential CCIRs. The G-2 or S-2 prepares the requirements planning tools and
recommend cyberspace and EW assets for information collection to the G-3 or S-3.
4-8 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
T ASK AND D IRECT C OLLECTION
4-44. In addition to the G-2 or S-2 using SIGINT for information collection, the G-3 or S-3 may task
cyberspace and EW assets to support the information collection effort. In this instance, the CEMA section will
assist the G-2 or S-2 by assigning organic EW assets while requesting additional EW and cyberspace assets as
required. The G-2 or S-2 is responsible for maintaining the synchronization of all assets used for the information
collection efforts.
E XECUTE C OLLECTION
4-45. The focus when executing information collection is to collect data that answers CCIRs and IRs for
analysis during the IPB process. This information assists in shaping the OE and attaining information on the
enemy. Collection activities acquire information about the enemy, including their cyberspace and EMSdependent capabilities and assets. Collection activities begin shortly after the receipt of the mission activities
of the operations process and continue throughout preparation and execution activities.
4-46. The G-2 or S-2 executes collection by conducting—
 Intelligence operations.
 Reconnaissance.
 Surveillance.
 Security operations.
Intelligence Operations
4-47. Intelligence operations are the tasks undertaken by military intelligence units through the intelligence
disciplines to obtain information to satisfy validated requirements (ADP 2-0). Through intelligence operations,
the G-2 or S-2 attains information regarding threat capabilities, activities, disposition, and characteristics.
Intelligence operations use multiple intelligence disciplines to collect information regarding cyberspace and the
EMS to satisfy CCIRs and IRs. However, knowledge attained from the other intelligence disciplines may also
provide cyberspace and EMS related insight. In addition to gathering information on peer and near-peer threats
through SIGINT, criminal intelligence collects information on cyberspace and EMS-related illegal activities
conducted throughout the assigned AO. For more information on criminal intelligence, refer to AR 195-2.
Reconnaissance
4-48. Reconnaissance is a mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods,
information about the activities and resources of an enemy or adversary, or to secure data concerning the
meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area (JP 2-0). Reconnaissance
produces information about the assigned AO. Through reconnaissance, the G-2 or S-2 can collect information
regarding such mission and operational variables as terrain characteristics, enemy and friendly obstacles to
movement, and the disposition of enemy forces and civilians. Combined employment of three methods of
reconnaissance (dismounted, mounted, and aerial) can result in the location and type(s) of friendly, civilian,
and threat cyberspace and EW capabilities operating in the assigned AO. Upon request, the CEMA section
supports the G-2 or S-2’s reconnaissance efforts by employing EW assets to conduct electromagnetic
reconnaissance to collect information in the EMS and request OCO support to conduct cyberspace exploitation
in cyberspace.
Surveillance
4-49. Surveillance is the systematic observation of aerospace, cyberspace, surface, or subsurface areas,
places, persons, or things by visual, aural, electronic, photographic, or other means (JP 3-0). Surveillance
involves observing an area to collect information and monitoring civilians and threats in a named area of interest
or target area of interest. Surveillance may be autonomous or part of a reconnaissance mission. Collecting
information in cyberspace and the EMS as part of a surveillance mission is also called network surveillance.
Network Surveillance is the observation of organizational, social, communications, cyberspace, or
infrastructure connections and relationships (FM 2-0). Network surveillance can also include detailed
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-9
Chapter 4
information on connections and relationships among individuals, groups, and organizations, and the role and
importance of aspects of physical or virtual infrastructure.
4-50. Information collected through network surveillance and other surveillance types are enablers to the
IPB process. This collected information provides insight into enemy cyberspace and EW capabilities and assets.
Upon request, the CEMA section supports the G-2 or S-2’s surveillance efforts by requesting OCO support to
employ cyberspace exploitation or by using EW assets to conduct electromagnetic reconnaissance to conduct
surveillance in enemy and neutral cyberspace and the EMS. Information collected through cyberspace
exploitation and electromagnetic reconnaissance includes mission and operational variables such as terrain
characteristics, enemy and friendly obstacles, and the disposition of enemy forces and civilians.
Security Operations
4-51. Security operations are those operations performed by commanders to provide early and accurate
warning of enemy operations, to provide the forces being protected with time and maneuver space within which
to react to the enemy and to develop the situation to allow commanders to effectively use their protected forces
(ADP 3-90). Early and accurate warnings provide friendly forces with time and maneuverability to react and
create an opportunity for the commander to employ force protection measures. Cyberspace defense, cyberspace
security, and EP include actions that allow early detection and mitigation of threats in cyberspace and the EMS.
Additionally, ES missions conduct electromagnetic reconnaissance to attain information about the disposition
of enemy threats in the EMS and modify security efforts.
4-52. The ultimate goal of security operations is to collect information on an enemy’s COA that provide
early warning and continuously disrupt enemy attacks. During security operations, information collected on an
enemy’s COA in cyberspace and the EMS allows units to take preemptive measures that prevent enemy
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance assets from determining friendly locations, strengths, and
weaknesses. Security operations also present opportunities to identify HVTs for future cyberspace attacks or
EA.
Note. For more intelligence information, see FM 2-0. For more details of information collection,
see FM 3-55.
T ERRAIN A SPECTS
4-53. Key terrain is any locality, or area, the seizure or retention of which affords a marked advantage to
either force (JP 2-01.3). Key terrain in cyberspace and the EMS is comparable to terrain in the other domains
in that prevailing affords any combatant a position of advantage. Maintaining a secured prevalence in
cyberspace and the EMS is a feasible objective when conducting cyberspace operations and EW. Seizing and
retaining the entirety of cyberspace and the EMS to the exclusion of all enemies and adversaries is an
unobtainable goal. It is also possible for both friendly and enemy forces to occupy the same terrain in
cyberspace and the EMS or use the same processes for conducting operations in and through cyberspace and
the EMS without knowing each other’s presence. Another characteristic of terrain in cyberspace is that virtual
components, identified in the logical network layer or the cyber-persona layer, constitutes locality in
cyberspace. For this reason, identification of key cyberspace terrain is an essential component of planning
cyberspace operations. Like the physical domain, commanders and staff must consider all of the military aspects
of terrain. However, unlike the physical domain, commanders and staff must remember that the cyberspace
terrain may change at any time. For example, an attacker may manipulate a firewall to create avenues of
approach, or the enemy removing a node from the network may be a key terrain.
4-54. Obstacles in cyberspace may include firewalls and port blocks. Avenues of approach in cyberspace
can be analyzed to identify nodes and links that connect endpoints to specific sites. Cover and concealment
may include hiding IP addresses or incorporating password-protected access to networks and network systems.
Cyberspace observation and fields of fire include areas where network traffic can be monitored, intercepted, or
recorded. Key cyber terrain provides access points to major lines of communications, key waypoints for
observing incoming threats, launch points for cyberspace attacks and mission-relevant cyberspace terrain
related to critical assets connected to the DODIN.
4-10 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
4-55. Obstacles in the EMS may include electromagnetic environmental effects, enemy deployment of
sensors and radars to detect friendly use of the EMS, and enemy employment of electromagnetic hardening,
masking, and security measures. Avenues of approach in the EMS can be analyzed to identify spectrumdependent systems, devices, and associated infrastructures that connect endpoints to specific locations
(precision geolocation). Cover and concealment can include emission control or the implementation of such
electromagnetic masking techniques as low-observability, low probability of intercept, and low probability of
detection. EMS fields of fire include those areas in the EMS where enemy electromagnetic energy can be
detected, identified, and evaluated through electromagnetic reconnaissance.
4-56. Key terrain in the EMS includes frequencies used as access points and launch points to enemy
spectrum-dependent systems, devices, and associated infrastructures. Key terrain also includes frequencies used
for preemptive countermeasures, observing incoming threats, and critical assets dependent on the EMS. Key
physical terrain is also imperative to the success of EW operations. Key terrain that provides superior line of
sight over the adversary’s position will help ensure friendly forces maintain a marked advantage over the
adversary.
4-57. Members of the CEMA working group need to match mission objectives with terrain analysis during
planning to determine key terrain in friendly, neutral, and enemy cyberspace (See Appendix A). Correlating
objectives with key terrain ensures mission dependencies in cyberspace and the EMS are identified and
prioritized for protection. The results from interdependent systems, networks, and infrastructure that support a
mission objective may require in-depth analysis to develop customized risk management.
TARGETING
4-58. Targeting is the process of selecting and prioritizing targets and matching the appropriate response to
them, considering operational requirements and capabilities (JP 3-0). A target is an entity or object that
performs a function for the adversary considered for possible engagement or other actions. (JP 3-60).
4-59. When targeting for cyberspace effects, the physical network layer is the medium through which all
digital data travels. The physical network layer includes wired (land and undersea cable), and wireless (radio,
radio-relay, cellular, satellite) transmission means. The physical network layer is a point of reference used
during targeting to determine the geographic location of an enemy’s cyberspace and EMS capabilities.
4-60. When targeting, planners may know the logical location of some targets without knowing their physical
location. The same is true when defending against threats in cyberspace. Defenders may know the logical point
of origin for a threat without necessarily knowing the physical location of that threat. Engagement of logical
network layer targets can only occur with a cyberspace capability.
4-61. The logical network layer provides target planners with an alternate view of the target that is different
from the physical network layer. A target’s position in the logical layer is identified by its IP addresses. Targets
located by their IP address depict how nodes in the physical layer correlate to form networks in cyberspace.
Targeting in the logical layer requires the IP address and access to the logical network to deliver cyberspace
effects. The ability of adversaries to change logical layer network configurations can complicate fires and
effects against both logical and cyber-persona layer targets, but the operational benefit of affecting those targets
often outweigh targeting challenges.
4-62. The inability to target a cyber-persona in a distinct area or form in the physical and logical network
layers presents unique complexities. Because of these complexities, target positioning at the cyber-persona
layer often requires multiple intelligence collection methods and an extensive analysis to develop insight and
situational understanding to identify actionable targets. Like the logical network layer, cyber-personas can
change quickly compared to changes in the physical network layer.
4-63. EA is exceptionally well suited to attack spectrum-dependent targets that are difficult to locate
physically, cannot be accurately targeted for lethal fires, or require only temporary disruption. The fires support
element plans, prepares, executes, and assesses fires supporting current and future operations by integrating
coordinated lethal and nonlethal effects through the targeting process. Lethal and nonlethal effects include
indirect fires, air and missile defense, joint fires, cyberspace attacks, and EA.
4-64. Targeting is a multidiscipline effort that requires coordinated interaction among the commander, the
fires support element, and several staff sections that form the targeting working group. The commander
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-11
Chapter 4
prioritizes fires to the targeting working group and provides clear and concise guidance on effects expected
from all fires, including cyberspace attacks and EA. Priority of fires is the commander’s guidance to the staff,
subordinate commanders, fires planners, and supporting agencies to employ fires in accordance with the relative
importance of the unit’s mission (FM 3-09). The targeting working group determines which targets to engage
and how, where, and when to engage them based on the targeting guidance and priorities of the commander.
4-65. The targeting working group assigns lethal and nonlethal capabilities, including cyberspace attack and
EA capabilities, to produce the desired effect on each target, ensuring compliance with the rules of engagement.
The CEMA section participates in the targeting working group and provides recommendations for the
employment of cyberspace and EMS-related actions against targets to meet the commander’s intent and
inclusion in the scheme of fires. Scheme of fires is the detailed, logical sequence of targets and fire support
events to find and engage targets to accomplish the supported commander’s objectives (JP 3-09).
4-66. The CEMA section works closely with the fires support element to coordinate and manage cyberspace
and EW assets as part of the fire support plan. This process is called fire support coordination and is the planning
and executing of fire so that targets are adequately covered by a suitable weapon or group of weapons (JP 309).
T ARGETING F UNCTIONS
4-67. The G-2 or S-2, in collaboration with the CEMA section and the fires support element, detects,
identifies, and locates targets through target acquisition. Effective employment of weapons, including EA and
cyberspace attacks, require sufficient intelligence gained through target acquisition. The G-2 or S-2 conducts
information collection to provide the fires support element, members of the targeting working group, and
members of the targeting board with intelligence information used for targeting. This information includes
threat cyberspace and EMS-enabled capabilities that require an individual or combined effect from lethal or
nonlethal attacks.
4-68. Targeting occurs continuously throughout operations. Army targeting methodology consists of four
functions: decide, detect, deliver, and assess (D3A). These targeting functions occur throughout the operations
process. Commanders and staff should also be conversant with joint targeting methodology and understand
how each of these processes and methodologies relate, because cyberspace operations and EW are usually
coordinated by a joint force commander. Table 4-1, page 4-13, illustrates a crosswalk between the operations
process, the joint targeting cycle, D3A, and military decision-making process.
4-12 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
Table 4-1. Targeting crosswalk
|OperationsProcess|Col2|Joint TargetingCycle|D3A|MilitaryDecision-Making process|Targeting Tasks|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Continuous Assessment|Plan|1.Commander’sObjectives,TargetingGuidance, andIntent.|Decide|MissionAnalysis|• Perform target value analysis to developfire support (including cyberspace,electromagnetic warfare, and informationrelated capabilities) high-value targets.• Provide fire support, information-relatedcapabilities, cyberspace, andelectromagnetic warfare related input tothe commander’s targeting guidance anddesired effects.|
|Continuous Assessment|Plan|2. TargetDevelopmentandPrioritization.|2. TargetDevelopmentandPrioritization.|Course ofActionDevelopment|• Designate potential high-payoff targets.• Deconflict and coordinate potential high-payoff targets.• Develop a high-payoff target list.• Establish target selection standards.• Develop an attack guidance matrix.• Develop fire support, cyberspace, andelectromagnetic warfare related tasks.• Develop associated measures ofperformance and measures ofeffectiveness.|
|Continuous Assessment|Plan|3. CapabilitiesAnalysis.|3. CapabilitiesAnalysis.|Course ofActionAnalysis|• Refine the high-payoff target list.• Refine the target selection standard.• Refine the attack guidance matrix.• Refine fire support tasks.• Refine associated measures ofperformance and measures ofeffectiveness.|
|Continuous Assessment|Plan|4.Commander’sDecision andForceAssignment.|4.Commander’sDecision andForceAssignment.|OrdersProduction|• Finalize the high-payoff target list.• Finalize target selection standards.• Finalize the attack guidance matrix.• Finalize the targeting synchronizationmatrix.• Finalize fire support tasks.• Finalize associated measures ofperformance and measures ofeffectiveness.• Submit information requirements tobattalion or brigade G-2/S-2.|
|Continuous Assessment|Prepare|5. MissionPlanning andForceExecution.|Detect||• Execute Information Collection Plan.• Update information requirements as theyare answered.• Update the high-payoff target list, attackguidance matrix, and targetingsynchronization matrix.• Update fire support, cyberspace, andelectromagnetic warfare related tasks.• Update associated measures ofperformance and measures ofeffectiveness|
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-13
Chapter 4
Table 4-1. Targeting crosswalk (continued)
|OperationsProcess|Col2|JointTargetingCycle|D3A|MilitaryDecision-Making Process|Targeting Tasks|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||Execute|6. Assessment|Deliver||• Execute fire support, cyberspace attacks,and electromagnetic attacks according tothe attack guidance matrix and thetargeting synchronization matrix.|
||Assess|Assess|Assess||• Assess task accomplishment (asdetermined by measures of performance).• Assess effects (as determined bymeasures of effectiveness.• Refine fire support tasks and associatedmeasures and reengage target if required|
|Legend:D3Adecide, detect, deliver, and assess|Legend:D3Adecide, detect, deliver, and assess|Legend:D3Adecide, detect, deliver, and assess|Legend:D3Adecide, detect, deliver, and assess|Legend:D3Adecide, detect, deliver, and assess|Legend:D3Adecide, detect, deliver, and assess|
Decide
4-69. The decide function is the first step of the targeting process. It begins with the military decision-making
process and continues throughout an operation. The CEMA section conducts the following actions during the
decide function of targeting––
 Threat cyberspace and EW-related capabilities and characteristics during target value analysis to
identify high-value targets. A high-value target is a target the enemy commander requires for the
successful completion of the mission (JP 3-60).
 Identifying potential cyberspace and EW-related HPTs. A high-payoff target is a target whose loss
to the enemy will significantly contribute to the success of the friendly course of action (JP 3-60).
A high-payoff target is a high-value target that must be acquired and successfully engaged for the
success of the commander’s mission.
 Specific targets that should be acquired and engaged using a cyberspace attack or EA capability
and established target selection standards.
 Location and time that targets are likely to be found through intelligence operations and how long
the target will remain fixed.
 Surveillance, reconnaissance, and target acquisition objectives for targets receiving cyberspace
attacks or EA and determining if the unit has the necessary cyberspace attack or EA capabilities
to deliver appropriate effects.
 Cyberspace and EMS-related IRs essential to the targeting effort.
 When, where, and with what priority should the targets be engaged, and what cyberspace attack
or EA capability to employ for effects.
 The level of effectiveness that constitutes a successful cyberspace attack or EA and if the
engagement achieved the commander’s objective.
 If a cyberspace attack or EA can affect a target, and how and what type of cyberspace attack or
EA can create the desired effect.
 How to obtain the information needed to assess a cyberspace attack or EA to determine success
or failure, and who will receive and process it.
 Who will be the decision-making authority to determine the success or failure of a cyberspace
attack or EA?
 What contingency action will occur if a cyberspace attack or EA is unsuccessful, and who has the
authority to direct those actions?
 Identifying the unit’s EW assets available for tasking and begin drafting FRAGOS.
 Drafting the RFS for OCO support to meet targeting requirements.
 Collaborating with units at higher, lower, and adjacent echelons for EW support to satisfy
identified gaps in EW capabilities.
4-14 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
 Drafting the Joint Tactical Air Request for airborne EA and other necessary EW requesting forms,
if required.
 Open communications with the higher command to receive updates on whether anticipated
cyberspace attack and EA-related targets have been validated and added to the JTF headquarters’
joint target list.
 Discussing cyberspace and EW-related risk that the commander will use to make risk
determinations.
 Determining the level of authorities for the engaging targets using cyberspace and electromagnetic
attacks.
4-70. During the decide function, the targeting working group identifies target restrictions that prohibit or
restrict cyberspace attacks or EA on specified targets without approval from higher authorities. The sources of
these restrictions include military risk, the law of war, rules of engagement, or other considerations. The JTF
annotates entities within the AO prohibited from attack on the no-strike list and targets with restrictions on the
restricted target list.
Detect
4-71. The detect function of the targeting process is the second step of the targeting process; during this step
ES capabilities or other target acquisition assets locate and track a specified target to the required level of
accuracy in time and space. During the detect function, the G-2 or S-2 coordinates with the targeting working
group in developing the information collection plan. Before conducting the deliver function, the targeting team
must establish measures of performance and measures of effectiveness for cyberspace and electromagnetic
attacks to ensure they meet the commander’s objectives.
4-72. The targeting working group focuses on the surveillance effort by identifying named areas of interest
and target areas of interest integrated into the information collection plan. Named areas of interest are typically
selected to capture indications of adversary courses of action but may be related to conditions of the OE.
4-73. The targeting working group identifies HPTs during planning and war-gaming. Target areas of interest
that require specific engagements using cyberspace attack or EA capabilities differ from engagement areas. An
engagement area is an area of concentration where a commander employs all available weapons to engage a
target. In contrast, a target area of interest engagement uses a specific weapons system to engage a target.
During the detect function, the CEMA section conducts the following actions–
 Provides cyberspace and EW-related IRs to determine HPTs that, when validated by the
commander, are added to the priority intelligence requirement.
 Tasks EW assets, when required, to conduct electromagnetic reconnaissance to support
information collection.
 Updates cyberspace attack and EA-related HVTs and HPTs.
 Determines if identified targets can be affected using OCO or EA (or both), and what type of EA
capability can create the desired effect
Note. The CEMA section alone cannot determine the type of cyberspace attack capability to use
on targets. The CEMA section must coordinate with higher headquarters CEMA staff and
appropriate joint cyberspace entities to develop an understanding of availability, feasibility, and
suitability of specific cyberspace capabilities.
 Advocating for the nomination of cyberspace attack and EA-related targets to the JTF
headquarters’ joint integrated prioritized target list and the joint targeting cycle.
 Developing the RFS for OCO support.
Deliver
4-74. The deliver function of the targeting process executes the target engagement guidance and supports
the commander’s battle plan upon confirmation of the location and identity of HPTs. Close coordination
between the CEMA section, intelligence, and fires support element is critical when detecting targets and
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-15
Chapter 4
delivering cyberspace attacks and EA. The fire support coordinator or fire support officer details fires
coordination in the OPLAN or OPORD or target synchronization matrix.
Assess
4-75. The assess function occurs throughout the operations process. During the assess function, targets are
continuously refined and adjusted by the commander and staff in response to new or unforeseen situations
presented during operations. Combat assessment measures the effectiveness of cyberspace attack and EA
capabilities on the target and concludes with recommendations for reattack, continued attack, or to cease an
attack. Recommendations for reattack, continued attack, and ceasing EA are combined G-3 or S-3 and
intelligence functions approved by the commander. For more information on the targeting cycle and target
development process, see ATP 3-60.
C ONSIDERATIONS W HEN T ARGETING
4-76. The fires support element, in collaboration with the G-3 or S-3 and G-2 or S-2, uses targeting cycles
and target development processes to select, prioritize, determine the type of effects, and duration of effects on
targets. CEMA’s planning, integrating, synchronizing, and assessing cyberspace operations and EW becomes
apparent during the targeting process. Three important aspects of cyberspace and EW operations that require
consideration during targeting processes are—
 Characteristics of cyberspace and electromagnetic warfare capabilities.
 Cascading, compounding, and collateral effects.
 Reversibility of effects.
 Considerations when requesting OCO support for targeting.
C HARACTERISTICS OF C YBERSPACE AND E LECTROMAGNETIC W ARFARE C APABILITIES
4-77. Cyberspace capabilities are developed based on gathered intelligence and from operational and mission
variables attained regarding an OE. In cyberspace operations, cyberspace forces consider such conditions as
the type of computer operating system used by an enemy or adversary, the make and model of the hardware,
the version of software installed on an enemy or adversary’s computer, and the availability of cyberspace attack
resources before creating effects on a target.
4-78. EW capabilities are also developed based on gathered intelligence on operational and mission variables
attained regarding an EMOE. In EW, targeting planners compare the types and capabilities of known spectrumdependent devices that enemies use to the availability of EW resources before creating EW effects on a target.
Targets include enemy spectrum-dependent devices carried by personnel and spectrum dependent systems used
with or in weapons systems, sensory systems, facilities, and cyberspace capabilities that require the use of the
EMS.
C ASCADING , C OMPOUNDING , AND C OLLATERAL E FFECTS
4-79. The CEMA section should understand the overlaps amongst the military, other government,
corporations, and private sectors in cyberspace. These overlaps are particularly important for estimates of
possible cascading, compounding, or collateral effects when targeting enemy and adversary cyberspace
capabilities. The same level of consideration is required when targeting enemy and adversary spectrumdependent devices in the EMS.
4-80. Cyberspace capabilities can create effects beyond the geographic boundaries of an AO and a
commander’s area of interest. Employing cyberspace capabilities for attack or manipulation purposes within
an area of interest require additional authorities beyond those given to a corps and below commander. Effects
resulting from cyberspace attack operations can cause cascading effects beyond the targeted system that were
not evident to the targeting planners. Cascading effects can sometimes travel through subordinate systems to
attain access to the targeted system. Cascading effects can also travel through lateral or high-level systems to
access a targeted system. Compounding effects are a gathering of various cyberspace effects that have interacted
in ways that may have been either intended or unforeseen. Effects resulting from EA can cause cascading effects
4-16 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
in the EMS beyond enemy or adversary’s spectrum-dependent devices, disrupting or denying friendly forces
access to the EMS throughout the EMOE.
4-81. Collateral effects, including collateral damage, are the accidental cyberspace or EW effects of military
operations on non-combatant and civilian cyberspace or EW capabilities that were not the intended target when
implementing fires.
Note. Rules of Engagement or an operations order may limit cyberspace or EW operations to only
those cyberspace or EW tasks that may result in no or minimal collateral effects. The CEMA
spectrum manager must deconflict the joint restriction frequency list to mitigate EMI before all
EW missions.
R EVERSIBILITY OF E FFECTS
4-82. Targeting planners must consider the level of control that they can exercise throughout each cyberspace
and electromagnetic attack. Categorization of reversibility of effects are—
 Operator reversible effects. These effects can be recalled, recovered, or terminated by friendly
forces. Operator reversible effects typically represent a lower risk of undesired consequences,
including discovery or retaliation.
 Non-operator reversible effects. These are effects that targeting planners cannot recall, recover,
or terminate after execution. Non-operator reversible effects typically represent a higher risk of
response from the threat or other undesired consequences and may require more coordination.
Considerations When Requesting Offensive Cyberspace Operations for Targeting
4-83. The integration of OCO into the targeting process requires both long-term preparation and real-time
mission planning during execution activities of the operations process. Due to target development and access
to both OCO capabilities and access to an enemy in cyberspace, it is essential to emphasize the necessity for
long-term preparation and planning of OCO for deliberate targets and effects.
4-84. When planning for OCO support to attack deliberate targets, the CEMA working group should consider
the following:
 Determine if the target is targetable using OCO. Generally, the only potential targets that receive
effects from a cyberspace attack are actively functioning in some portion of the information
environment (data or information generation, processing, storage, communications, and digital
data consumption or destruction).
 Ensure the target has not already been nominated or on an existing targeting list. If it has not
already been nominated or placed on a current targeting list, it will require nomination for further
target development.
 Consolidate all answered CCIRs and IRs. CCIRs and IRs may include such threat cyberspace
intelligence as—links or nodes; associated hardware or software; specific software versions and
configurations, communications protocol; physical or logical dependencies; or specific identifiers
(IP address, machine access control address, international mobile subscriber identity, or phone
numbers).
 Determine if intelligence attained through the IPB also includes information necessary to tailor
targeting development on avenues to gain access to an enemy’s cyberspace capabilities.
Approaches to attain access to an enemy’s cyberspace capabilities include—telephony, IP,
embedded systems, and radio frequencies.
 The CEMA section is responsible for providing regular updates on a combat mission team’s ability
to conduct OCO as well as provide updated information on the supported operation.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-17
Chapter 4
Note. Access to an enemy’s cyberspace capability does not guarantee the success of an employed
cyberspace attack. The combat mission team must tailor the capability to create the desired effect
on an enemy’s cyberspace capability.
RISK MANAGEMENT
4-85. Risk management is the process to identify, assess, and control risks and make decisions that balance
risk cost with mission benefits (JP 3-0) and an element of command and control. Risk is the exposure of
someone or something valued to danger, harm, or loss, and is inherent in all operations. The commander and
staff conduct risk management throughout the operations process to identify and mitigate risks associated with
hazards that can cause friendly and civilian casualties, damage or destruction of equipment, or otherwise impact
mission effectiveness. Aspects of cyberspace defense and security operations and EP missions include risk
mitigation measures as part of risk management.
4-86. Risk management is integrated into planning activities and continues throughout the operations
process. Risk management consists of the following steps:
 Identify the hazards.
 Assess the hazards.
 Develop controls and make risk decisions.
 Implement controls.
 Supervise and evaluate.
4-87. The CEMA section, as with all staff elements, incorporate risk management into cyberspace operations
and EW-related running estimates and recommendations to mitigate risk. The G-3/S-3 coordinates risk
management amongst all staff elements during the operations process. For more information on the risk
management process, see ATP 5-19.
R ISKS IN C YBERSPACE AND THE E LECTROMAGNETIC S PECTRUM
4-88. Risk is inherent in all military operations. When commanders accept risks, they create opportunities to
seize, retain, and exploit the initiative and achieve decisive results. The willingness to incur risks is often the
key to exposing an enemy’s weaknesses that the enemy considers beyond friendly reach. Commanders assess
and mitigate risks continuously throughout the operations process. Many risks to the DODIN-A come from
enemies, adversaries, and insiders. Some threats are well equipped and well trained, while some are novices
using readily available and relatively inexpensive equipment and software. Army users of the DODIN are
trained on basic cyberspace security, focusing on the safe use of information technology and understanding
common threats in cyberspace.
4-89. Risk management is the Army’s primary decision-making process for identifying hazards and
controlling risks. The process applies to all types of operations, tasks, and activities, including cyberspace
operations. The factors of mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time available,
and civil considerations provide a standardized methodology for addressing both threat and hazard-based risks.
Risks associated with cyberspace operations fall into four major categories—
 Operational risks.
 Technical risks.
 Policy risks.
 Operations security risks.
Operational Risks
4-90. Operational risks pertain to the consequences that cyberspace and EMS threats pose to mission
effectiveness. Operational consequences are the measure of cyberspace attack and EA effectiveness.
Cyberspace intrusions or attacks, and likewise in the EMS, can compromise networks, systems, and data, which
can result in operational consequences such as injury or death of personnel, damage to or loss of equipment or
property, degradation of capabilities, mission degradation, or even mission failure. Exfiltration of data from
4-18 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
Army networks by the enemy can undermine the element of surprise and result in loss of initiative. Enemy or
adversary forces may conduct cyberspace and EMS attacks to exposed friendly networks and capabilities,
compromising future cyberspace attacks and cyberspace exploitation missions.
4-91. Friendly forces conducting cyberspace operations and EW encounter many operational risks.
Commander and staff consider cascading effects because of employing cyberspace attacks and EA. The CEMA
section ensures that the commander and staff understand the characteristics of the various cyberspace and EW
capabilities and their associated effects. The CEMA section informs the commander and staff of the
reversibility of effects resulting from cyberspace attacks and EA to understand that some effects are irreversible
at the operator level. Attaining an understanding of the characteristics, cascading effects, and reversibility
effects provide a commander with situational awareness and in determining the acceptable risks when
conducting cyberspace operations and EW.
4-92. It is essential to consider risk management when conducting OCO and EA that could reveal friendly
locations and intentions to an adversary prematurely. Some OCO or EA effects have a one-time use and once
utilized cannot be effectively used again. OCO and EA may also create cascading effects that could hinder
other operations.
4-93. Personal electronic device(s) such as smartwatches, smartphones, tablets, laptops, and gaming systems
can be a significant OPSEC vulnerability to friendly cyberspace and EW capabilities. The CEWO gathers
understanding surrounding risks associated with PEDs from the G2 or S2 and OPSEC and makes
recommendations to the commander regarding their usage in the organization.
Technical Risks
4-94. Technical risks exist when there are exploitable vulnerabilities in systems on the DODIN-A, and there
are threats that can exploit those vulnerabilities. Nearly every technical system within the Army is networked,
resulting in a vulnerability in one system compromising other connected systems, creating a shared
vulnerability. These potentially vulnerable networked systems and components directly impact the Army’s
ability to conduct operations. DCO mitigates risks by defending against specified cyberspace attacks, thereby
denying the enemy’s ability to take advantage of technical vulnerabilities that could disrupt operations.
4-95. Robust information systems engineering disciplines result in chain risk management, security,
counterintelligence, intelligence, and hardware and software assurance that assist the leaders with managing
technical risk. Friendly forces examine the technical risks when conducting cyberspace attacks to avoid making
friendly networks vulnerable to enemy cyberspace counterattacks. The Army uses a layering approach, using
these elements—
 Antivirus and anti-malware programs.
 Employing firewalls.
 Updating firmware and patches.
 Employing network intrusion detection and monitoring sensors.
 Implementing both cybersecurity and physical security measures to mitigate technical risks.
4-96. The elements listed in paragraph 4-95 are essential defensive enablers when implemented effectively
and updated regularly.
Policy Risks
4-97. Policy risk pertains to authorities, legal guidance, and international law. Policies address cyberspace
boundaries, authorities, and responsibilities. Commanders and decision makers must perform risk assessments
and consider known probable cascading and collateral effects due to overlapping interests between military,
civil, government, private, and corporate activities on shared networks in cyberspace. Policies, the United States
Code (USC), the Uniform Code of Military Justice, regulations, publications, operation orders, and standard
operating procedures all constitute a body of governance for making decisions about activities in cyberspace.
4-98. Policy risk includes considering international norms and practices, the effect of deviating from those
norms, and potential shifts in international reputation because of the effects resulting from a cyberspace
operation. Cyberspace attacks can be delivered through networks owned, operated, and geographically located
within the sovereignty of multiple governments. EA can also deliver effects that impact frequencies in the
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-19
Chapter 4
spectrum owned and operated by commercial, government, and other neutral users. Therefore, it is vital to
consider the legal, cultural, and political costs associated with using cyberspace and the EMS as avenues of
approach.
4-99. Policy risks occur where policy fails to address operational necessity. For example, a policy emplaced
that limits cyberspace operations, which results in low levels of collateral effects, can result in a unit constrained
to cyberspace attacks that will not result in the desired outcomes necessary for mission success. A collateral
effects analysis to meet policy limits is distinct from the proportionality and necessity analysis required by the
law of war. Even if a proposed cyberspace operation is permissible after a collateral effect’s analysis, the
proposed cyberspace operation or EW mission must include a legitimate military objective that is also
permissible under the law of war.
4-100. Policy risk applies to risk management under civil or legal considerations. An OCO or EA mission
may pose a risk to host nation civilians and non-combatants in an OE where a standing objective is to minimize
collateral damage. During a mission, it may be in the Army’s best interest for host nation populations to be able
to perform day-to-day activities. Interruptions of public networks may present hazards to the DODIN-A and
pose dangers to Army forces because of social impacts that lead to riots, criminal activity, and the emergence
of insurgent opportunists seeking to exploit civil unrest.
Operations Security Risks
4-101. Both cyberspace and the EMS provides a venue for OPSEC risks. The Army depends on cyberspace
security programs and training to prevent or mitigate OPSEC risks. Commanders emphasize and establish
OPSEC programs to minimize the risks. OPSEC measures include actions and information on the DODIN and
non-DODIN information systems and networks. All personnel are responsible for protecting sensitive and
critical information. EP denies unauthorized access to information that an enemy intercept in the EMS through
electromagnetic security operations. For more information on OPSEC, refer to AR 530-1 and ATP 3-13.3.
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT
4-102. Knowledge management is the process of enabling knowledge flow to enhance shared understanding,
learning, and decision making (ADP 6-0). The four components of knowledge management are people,
processes, tools, and organizations. Knowledge management facilitates the transfer of knowledge among the
commander, staff, and forces to build and maintain situational awareness and enhance organizational
performance. Through knowledge management, information gets to the right personnel at the right time to
facilitate decision making.
4-103. During knowledge management, the necessary cyberspace operations and EW-related information and
tools from higher headquarters are provided to the CEMA working group in a timely enough manner to make
decisions during mission analysis and COA development. Through the knowledge management process,
cyberspace operations and EW-related intelligence received through information collection and IO is
disseminated for decision making by the CEMA working group. The knowledge management steps are—
 Assess.
 Design.
 Develop.
 Pilot.
 Implement.
4-104. The CEWO is responsible for establishing and overseeing the flow of all cyberspace operations and
EW-related information throughout the headquarters staff, including higher and lower echelons. The CEWO is
accountable for providing IRs to the G-2 or S-2 to attain essential information needed to understand cyberspace
and the EMS within an OE. Information acquired from IRs is also crucial to the CEMA section’s ability to
appropriately integrate and synchronize cyberspace operations and EW with the operations process.
4-105. The CEMA section and collaborating staff provide meaning to operations by sharing both tacit and
explicit knowledge. Tacit knowledge is what individuals know; a unique, personal store of knowledge gained
from life experiences, training, and networks of friends, acquaintances, and professional colleagues (ATP 601.1). All members of the CEMA working group provide knowledge attained from years of operational and
4-20 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration through the Operations Process
strategic experiences, including learned nuances, subtleties, and workarounds from previous operations.
Explicit knowledge is codified or formally documented knowledge organized and transferred to others through
digital or non-digital means (ATP 6-01.1). Explicit knowledge is authoritative knowledge containing standards
attained from, by not implicit to, policies, regulations, doctrine. For more information on the knowledge
management process, refer to ATP 6-01.1.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 4-21