SUMMARY
From May 2016 to November
2017, at least 20 organisations
were attacked in the United
States, UK and Russia. At
least one of the US banks was
successfully robbed twice.
In addition to money, attackers
stole documentation related
to the interbank payment
systems, which appear to have
been obtained to prepare
further attacks.
Based on analysis of these
incidents, attack tools and
the tactics applied, we have
concluded that the same
group, which Group-IB has
dubbed MoneyTaker (after the
malware used) is behind these
attacks. It is interesting to note
that despite the effectiveness
of the attacks, they have gone
completely unreported till now.
Targets


In total Group-IB has confirmed at least 20 companies as
victims of the MoneyTaker group, 16 of which are located
in the US. The vast majority of them are small community
banks, where hackers attacked card processing systems. The
average damage from each successful attack was 500,000
USD baseline.


Criminals stole documentation for OceanSystems’ FedLink
card processing system, which is used by 200 banks in Latin
America and the US. We believe that banks operating on this
infrastructure are at risk of being amongst the next targets of
MoneyTaker group.


In Russia, they focus on attacks on the system of interbank
transfers AWS CBR (Russian Interbank payment system). The
average amount of damage caused by this theft scheme is
1.2 million USD per incident. That said, the affected banks
managed to return some portion of the stolen money.


Tools and tactics
Attackers use both borrowed and their own self-written tools.
When attacking, hackers act creatively and wisely: they use «onetime» infrastructure and carefully erase traces of their activity
post-incident.
Infiltration


To penetrate the corporate network, the group uses legitimate
pen testing tools - Metasploit and PowerShell Empire.


After successful infection, they carefully erase malware
traces. However, when investigating one of the incidents, we
managed to discover the initial point of compromise: hackers
penetrated the bank’s internal network by gaining access to
the home computer of the bank’s system administrator.


Stealthy techniques

The group uses ‘fileless’ malware which only exists in RAM
and is removed on rebooting.
