Conclusion
Phishing attacks are the most popular method of stealing data and hacking account
amongst Iranian hackers, but the most significant fact about this campaign is its timing.
This campaign launched weeks before 4 November 2018 which is when the U.S. imposed
new sanctions on Iran. This campaign tries to collect information by infiltrating the
accounts of non-Iranian political figures and authorities who work on economic and
military sanctions against Iran.
In other words, hackers who are supported by the Iranian government pick their targets
according to policies and international interests for the Iranian government and also where
Iran wants to have impact indirectly.
A a result, we propose a series of recommendations to tech companies, policymakers, civil
society actors and internet users to effectively lessen the threat of this type of attack and
even thwart them.
Our recommendations to tech companies and policy makers:
Stop using 2 factor authentication by text plain message/SMS.
Start using Security Keys (i.e. YubiKey) for 2 factor authentication for high ranking
individuals who have sensitive jobs or activities.
Do not use one-tap login verification process.
Our recommendations to civil society and the Iranian diaspora media:
Inform employees and colleagues about any phishing threats and encourage them to
use Security Keys such as Yubikey for 2 factor authentication and activate Google’s
Advanced Protection Program.
Always use company and institution email accounts instead of personal email for
sensitive communications. Change Sender Policy Framework or SPF 6 settings
according to the communication policy of the company/organisation such as
restricting receiving emails from outside of the working network. For example, G
Suite allows admins to block receiving emails from unauthorised address or
5/8
7
domains ~~.~~
Encourage the public to enable 2 factor authentication on their account by mobile
apps such as Google Authenticator.
Our recommendations to users:
Do not click on unknown links. For reviewing suspicious activities on your account or
change the password, instead of clicking on any link, you can go to your “My
Account” settings from your email directly which is more safer.
Use email encryption such PGP for sensitive emails which prevent hackers reading
your emails in the first place.
Do not store classified and sensitive information as a plain text in your mailbox.
HTTPS being before a domain names in a URL does not mean that the content of a
website is secure or trusted - it’s just a secure extension of the HTTP protocol. Do not
forget many phishing websites are currently operating under HTTPS protocol too.