Charming Kitten or Rocket kitten?
While Iranian threat actors have been well documented by security researchers, the inner workings of the
ecosystem of Iran's hackers is not entirely clear. Groups can be vigorously active for years and then
disappear abruptly, sometimes due to being publicly outed. Researchers make a best-faith effort to assign
operations to certain groups, but the instability in the field makes the process challenging.
A case of these obscure lines can be found in a blogpost published in coordination and parallel to this report
-“Flying Kitten to Rocket Kitten, A Case of Ambiguity and Shared Code” [3] by Collin Anderson and Claudio
Guarnieri. Flying Kitten (which is another name given by the security industry to Charming Kitten) was one of
the first groups to be described as a coherent threat actor conducting operations against political opponents
of the IRI (Islamic Republic of Iran) government and foreign espionage targets. FireEye’s publication of
“Operation Saffron Rose” report, which described Flying Kitten’s operations against aviation firms, led to the
dismantling of Flying kitten's infrastructure and the apparent end of its activities. Months later, another,
seemingly distinct group, “Rocket Kitten,” would be described by a series of reports.
While the two groups exhibited different behaviors that lend credence to the assumption they were distinct,
disclosures of private toolkits strongly suggest that Rocket Kitten had used Flying Kitten resources
throughout its credential-theft operations. Moreover, Rocket Kitten had experimented with reusing malware
that appeared to be an undisclosed precursor to Flying Kitten's “Stealer” agent documented by FireEye.
These overlaps provide some indication that Rocket Kitten had some relationship to Flying Kitten – perhaps
members of the latter joining the new team. Rocket Kitten has since largely subsided as a formidable actor,
and repeating the theme of its predecessor now only appears in echoes of other campaigns.
Read -“Flying Kitten to Rocket Kitten, A Case of Ambiguity and Shared Code” here:
https://iranthreats.github.io/resources/attribution-flying-rocket-kitten.
Further information is available in "Appendix B - Previous reports about Charming Kitten and Rocket Kitten".
3 https://iranthreats.github.io/resources/attribution-flying-rocket-kitten
Page 4 of 59
©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security, 2017