Further campaigns
Waterbug has also mounted two other campaigns over the past year, each of which was
characterized by separate tools. These campaigns were wide ranging, hitting targets in
Europe, Latin America, and South Asia.
In the first campaign, Waterbug used two versions of a custom loader named javavs.exe
(64-bit) and javaws.exe (32-bit), to load a custom backdoor named PhotoBased.dll and
run the export function GetUpdate on the victim’s computers. The backdoor will modify
the registry for the Windows Media Player to store its C&C configuration. It also
reconfigures the Microsoft Sysinternals registry to prevent pop-ups when running the
PsExec tool. The backdoor has the capability to download and upload files, execute
shell commands, and update its configuration.
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/waterbug-espionage-governments 6/9
6/21/2019 Waterbug: Espionage Group Rolls Out Brand-New Toolset in Attacks Against Governments | Symantec Blogs
The javaws.exe loader is also used to run another loader named tasklistw.exe. This is
used by the attackers to decode and execute a series of malicious executables that
download Meterpreter to the infected computer.
The attackers also install another backdoor that runs a command shell via the named
pipe cmd_pipe. Both backdoors allow the attackers to execute various commands that
provide full control of the victim’s system. Waterbug also used an older version of
PowerShell, likely to avoid logging.
In the second campaign, Waterbug used an entirely different backdoor, named
securlsa.chk. This backdoor can receive commands through the RPC protocol. Its
capabilities include:
Executing commands through cmd.exe with the output redirected into a temporary
file
Reading the command output contained in the temporary file
Reading or writing arbitrary files
This RPC backdoor also included source code derived from the tool PowerShellRunner,
which allows a user to run PowerShell scripts without executing powershell.exe,
therefore the user may bypass detection aimed at identifying malicious PowerShell
usage.
While both campaigns involved distinct tools during the initial compromise phase, there
were also many similarities. Both were characterized by the use of a combination of
custom malware and publicly available tools. Also, during both campaigns Waterbug
executed multiple payloads nearly simultaneously, most likely to ensure overlapping
access to the network if defenders found and removed one of the backdoors.
Waterbug took several steps to avoid detection. It named Meterpreter as a WAV file type,
probably in the hope that this would not raise suspicions. The group also used GitHub as
a repository for tools that it downloaded post-compromise. This too was likely motivated
by a desire to evade detection, since GitHub is a widely trusted website. It used
Certutil.exe to download files from the repository, which is an application whitelist bypass
technique for remote downloads.
In one of these campaigns, Waterbug used a USB stealer that scans removable storage
devices to identify and collect files of interest. It then packages stolen files into a
password-protected RAR archive. The malware then uses WebDAV to upload the RAR
archive to a Box account.