4
The Earliest Naikon APT Campaigns TLP White
“Everything32” to victim systems, and TeamViewer was used as well. It is likely that
the group faced difficulties when it came up against anti-malware products and tried
abusing legitimate tools for anti-malware evasion. Finally, this threat actor deploys
a custom pdf binding tool, to add to its effective but low-tech toolset.
The Naikon attackers can be, and in fact have been precise in social-engineering their
targets. Data collection prior to an attack may have included the following data points:
- full names


 - email addresses and status (active or inactive)


- date of birth and age


 - interests in current events


 - nationality


- gender


- previous email and social network communications to and from a target


- language spoken

Victims of the early campaigns were located mostly throughout Myanmar, Vietnam,
Singapore, Laos, Malaysia, and the Philippines. There are other locations where Naikon’s
victims can be found, but these countries stand out.
To get in to target networks, the Naikon APT relied on email as an attack vector. It first
compromised victim systems using common spear-phishing techniques, such as cve2012-0158 exploit attachments, attachments altered with RTLO techniques, and a com­
bination of icon-spoofing and name padding for executables. The MsnMM campaigns
featured ripped images and documents re-used for spear-phish decoys, and we see that
technique reapplied throughout other Naikon APT campaigns. The winMM components
were also delivered to Myanmar victims throughout mid-2013 using RTLO and iconspoofing techniques and sometimes even simpler icon spoofing+double extension+extra
spacing in attachment filenames. For example, many of the Backdoor.Win32.MsnMM.i
(winMM) executable filenames maintained almost 200 spaces, looking like this:
“letter to Gov office.doc .exe”
The Naikon APT used multiple backdoors presenting a variety of behaviors over time,
but clusters of indicators were fairly consistent into 2015.
For full indicator and other details, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
The MsnMM Campaigns