Effective cybersecurity capability
3. Ransomware-specific assessment
Organisations should perform a cybersecurity
assessment specific to the threat of ransomware,
given the heightened threat posed by ransomware
attacks. This will highlight the extent to which the
organisation’s cybersecurity controls are appropriate
and effective to defend against this threat, and
identify areas that may require urgent investment.
Key examples of cybersecurity controls that
should be assessed include: sufficiency of security
monitoring to detect and contain ransomware
attacks in the early stages, ability to prevent and
detect the compromise of ‘privileged’ (e.g. systems
administrator) accounts, and the robustness of user
authentication.
Several organisations that provide ransomwareresponse services can provide such assessments,
and publicly available frameworks and guidance
are available from organisations such as the
Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
(“CISA”) in the USA.
4. Effective cybersecurity monitoring
and response
Organisations must possess an effective security
monitoring capability that can detect and respond to
the tools and techniques used by human-operated
ransomware groups. This should include deploying
a capable ‘Endpoint Detection & Response’ tool to
detect and prevent malicious activity on workstations
(fed by current cyber threat intelligence) and ensuring
the development of skilled resources and processes
so that security alerts are rapidly triaged, investigated
and responded to.
5. Testing of cybersecurity capability
through simulated attacks
Testing of cybersecurity capability through the use
of ethical hackers simulating end-to-end attack
techniques (i.e. ‘red team’ testing) is essential
to provide a threat- based perspective of an
organisation’s vulnerability to ransomware and other
types of attacks. This can be used to rapidly identify
and prioritise key security improvement areas and
ensure that the organisation can effectively detect
common attacker tools, with the necessary people
12 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
and processes are in place to investigate and
respond to alerts.