C OMMUNICATION WITH THE C OMMAND AND C ONTROL S ERVER
When malware is executed on the target’s system it “checks in” with one or more
servers under the control of the attackers. Command and control mechanisms allow the
threat actors to confi rm that an attack has succeeded in addition to supplying them with
some information about the target’s computer and network. From here on, the client
communicates back to the control server expecting a command, allowing the attackers
to issue commands to the compromised target.
All of the connections to the command and control servers use the HTTP protocol and
request specifi c URL paths. On startup, the malware connects to the command and
control server and requests the path “/trandocs/mm/” (the path may differ with other
samples, for example “httpdocs/mm/ or /iupw82/netstate”). This appears to be a LOGIN
connection and the server always responds with “123”. The data transmitted to the
command and control server consists of the following:
Encrypted Password/:/

:


 (sys32time.ini exists? Is it 1Mb or bigger?)
 (ipop.dll exists?)
 (always n in our samples)
 (2.14 or 2.15)
The encrypted password at the beginning of the LOGIN packet only appears on version
2.15. The sample we analyzed contains the password “hallelujah” and it is encrypted
with “ADD +FAh”. The earlier version, 2.14, does not contain a password at all.
After the initial connection, the malware makes two kinds of connections to the
command and control server every 2 minutes. The fi rst connection is a KEEPALIVE
connection to the URL path “/cgl-bin/Owpq4.cgi”. The malware posts information to the
command and control server that identifi es the compromised machine: OS and version,
“campaign ID” and malware version. The second connection is an ASKCMD connection
to a URL with the path “/trandocs/mm/ :/Cmwhite”.
The contents of “Cmwhite” contain commands that are sent by the attackers to the
compromised computer. The range of possible commands will be discussed below.
When the command fi le, “Cmwhite” is downloaded, the malware fi rst acknowledges the
receipt of the command by issuing an ACKCMD connection to “/cgl-bin/Clnpp5.cgi”.
Once the command is interpreted and performed, the malware issues a CMDDONE
request to “/cgl-bin/Rwpq1.cgi”. It contains the results of the command and, if relevant,
a result code that indicates any error encountered. When there is no command set
by the attackers for the victim computer, the command and control server returns a
“404 NOT FOUND” error page. This is never interpreted correctly as a command and
therefore ignored.