8 Lazarus arisen: architecture, tools, attribution
1  Key 2  Attack 3  Attack 4 Recommendations
Findings preparation and organizers
 2  Attack 
preparation and
implementation
  3  Attack 4 Recommendations 5 Indicators of 6 Appendix
organizers compromise
  
To encrypt all of its network connections, the traffic forwarder uses the
statically linked wolfSSL libraries and SSL certificates which are generated
by a pre-defined template. The “Issued for“ field always contains a third-level
domain slash an email address.
A few examples are shown below:


www.resfinan.com/emailAddress=info@resfinan.com


finews.otzo.com/emailAddress=master@otzo.com


host.global.com/emailAddress=info@host.global.com


latest.ignorelist.com/emailAddress=consult@latest.ignorelist.com


With information about this template, Group-IB specialists managed to detect
similar certificates and associated hosts. With these indicators, you can check
if your organization was, or is, under attack by Lazarus.
Backend_Listener is software installed by attackers on Layer 3 servers. The
program performs communications with other servers, receives commands
from the administrator and sends them in chain order to the end infected
computer.
Backend_Listener listens on the two ports:


port 8080, to which it accepts SSL connections from Layer 2 servers.


port 9090, to which it accepts connections from the control system
(Admin_Tool).


To encrypt traffic, the wolfSSL open source library is used. After the
application is launched, the private key and certificate files are loaded from
the root directory. These files are used to encrypt traffic between the C&C
server and connected clients.
To defend against security solutions designed to “unpack” SSL encrypted
traffic, Backend_Listener encrypts all data sent over an SSL channel using an
additional reversible encryption algorithm and performs legitimacy checks.
To reverse-engineer the protocol of server communications with clients,
Group-IB specialists have developed a client that successfully connects to
both above-mentioned ports.