Understanding the Motive
When you think of large breaches to big organizations, the first thing that comes to mind is usually
payment data. An organization that provides services to a large customer base has a lot of credit
card data, bank account information, and more personal data on its systems. These attacks are
usually conducted by a cybercrime group looking to make money.
In contrast, when a nation state threat actor is attacking a big organization, the end goal is
typically not financial, but rather intellectual property or sensitive information about their clients.
One of the most valuable pieces of data that telecommunications providers hold is Call Detail
Records (CDRs). CDRs are a large subset of metadata that contains all details about calls,
including:
Source, Destination, and Duration of a Call
Device Details
Physical Location
Device Vendor and Version
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers For a nation state threat actor, obtaining access to this data gives them intimate knowledge of any 12/21
individuals they wish to target on that network. It lets them answer questions like:
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
Who are the individuals talking to?
Which devices are the individuals using?
Where are the individuals traveling?
Having this information becomes particularly valuable when nation-state threat actors are
targeting foreign intelligence agents, politicians, opposition candidates in an election, or even law
enforcement.
Example 1: CDR Data
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 13/21
Example2:CDRData
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
Example 3: CDR Data
Beyond targeting individual users, this attack is also alarming because of the threat posed by the
control of a telecommunications provider. Telecommunications has become critical infrastructure
for the majority of world powers. A threat actor with total access to a telecommunications provider,
as is the case here, can attack however they want passively and also actively work to sabotage
the network.
This attack has widespread implications, not just for individuals, but also for organizations and
countries alike. The use of specific tools and the choice to hide ongoing operations for years
points to a nation state threat actor, most likely China. This is another form of cyber warfare being
used to establish a foothold and gather information undercover until they are ready to strike.
Want to learn about post-incident review? Read about post-incident review.