Targets
The targets of the four recent zero-day exploits were attacked through both email (CVE-2012-0779 and CVE2012-1535) and Web vectors (CVE-2012-0779, CVE-2012-1875, and CVE-2012-1889). Identifying the target
profile and related industry to which the target belongs is straight forward when email is used in an attack.
Identifying the profile of the targets when the Web is used as the attack vector is difficult. For example, if an
aeronautical website was compromised, the attackers may be trying to infect visitors from the Defense industry,
the aeronautical company employees themselves, or perhaps visitors from others aeronautical companies. For
our analysis, we have had to presume that the industry sector being targeted is the same as that of the watering
hole website, understanding that in reality this may not always be the case.
The primary targets identified are defense, or more precisely manufacturers that are in the defense supply
chain. These are companies who manufacture electronic or mechanical components which are then sold to
top-tier defense companies. The attackers may use the manufacturers as a stepping stone to gain access to
top-tier defense contractors, or obtain intellectual property used in the production of parts that make up larger
products produced by a top-tier defense company.
Figure 3
Target sectors
The second most common target is the general area of human rights, or Non Governmental Organizations
(NGOs). A number of websites generally relating to religion, Taiwan, Hong Kong and China were compromised
for this purpose. The CVE-2012-1875 exploit is almost exclusively used in this target sector, with some crossover
from the CVE-2012-1889 exploit.
Figure 4
Number of targeted companies (Email) and compromised
websites (Web) per exploit
The remaining target sectors include Finance, Energy (Oil/Gas), Education, and Government. There are a number
of outlier victims, such as a hotel jobs site, which may have simply been targeted in error and are collateral
damage. The vast majority of detections are in the United States. Figure 5 shows those detections.
Figure 5
Global detections of files used in the past year by the Elderwood gang