Overview
Numerous factors have made attribution more difficult today than it has ever been, especially when it
comes to attributing cyberespionage operations to threat actors. The infrastructure and malware that
threat actors use constantly evolve, and the same actor can even use a totally different set of tools,
tactics, and procedures (TTPs) from one campaign to another. In addition, several different threat actors
might collaborate and share tools, infrastructure, or malware.
In this tech brief, we are going to expose a threat actor originating from China. Since the malware being
used by the group, such as ShadowPad and Winnti, overlapped with other threat actors, its activities were
attributed to other groups such as APT41, Earth Baku, Sparkling Goblin, and the “Winnti” cluster in
different reports. Our research reveals the different TTPs and the independent set of infrastructure that
made us consider it a separate threat actor from the other known actors mentioned. Some reports named
this threat actor “TAG-22” or “Fishmonger.” We decided to separate it from the Winnti umbrella and track
this threat actor under the name “Earth Lusca.”
Our investigation of Earth Lusca started in mid-2021, when we discovered a campaign targeting customer
service companies in China via a watering hole attack. Eventually, our monitoring and research lead to
the publication of a blog post on a previously-unreported malware known as BIOPASS RAT. We
continued monitoring the threat actor, eventually discovering a few more targeted operations against
various targets worldwide. In this research, we will expose all of the groups TTPs and its current
operations.
During our investigation, we also managed to reach some of the victims and gather interesting
information from compromised servers that were used as watering holes. We were able to learn Earth
Lusca’s reconnaissance and lateral movement techniques while working with our local incident response
service team via our XDR system,.
The goal of this research is to piece together a puzzle of fragmented parts that we do not often see
together — and in turn, provide a clearer picture of the threat actor and its activities.