Operation Triangulation’ attack chain
Here is a quick rundown of this 0-click iMessage attack, which used four zero-days and
was designed to work on iOS versions up to iOS 16.2.
Attackers send a malicious iMessage attachment, which the application processes
without showing any signs to the user.
https://securelist.com/operation-triangulation-the-last-hardware-mystery/111669/ 1/20
1/12/24, 6:10 PM Operation Triangulation: The last (hardware) mystery | Securelist
This attachment exploits the remote code execution vulnerability CVE-2023-41990
in the undocumented, Apple-only ADJUST TrueType font instruction. This instruction
had existed since the early nineties before a patch removed it.
It uses return/jump oriented programming and multiple stages written in the
NSExpression/NSPredicate query language, patching the JavaScriptCore library
environment to execute a privilege escalation exploit written in JavaScript.
This JavaScript exploit is obfuscated to make it completely unreadable and to
minimize its size. Still, it has around 11,000 lines of code, which are mainly
dedicated to JavaScriptCore and kernel memory parsing and manipulation.
It exploits the JavaScriptCore debugging feature DollarVM ($vm) to gain the ability
to manipulate JavaScriptCore’s memory from the script and execute native API
functions.
It was designed to support both old and new iPhones and included a Pointer
Authentication Code (PAC) bypass for exploitation of recent models.
It uses the integer overflow vulnerability CVE-2023-32434 in XNU’s memory
mapping syscalls (mach_make_memory_entry and vm_map) to obtain read/write
access to the entire physical memory of the device at user level.
It uses hardware memory-mapped I/O (MMIO) registers to bypass the Page
Protection Layer (PPL). This was mitigated as CVE-2023-38606.
After exploiting all the vulnerabilities, the JavaScript exploit can do whatever it
wants to the device including running spyware, but the attackers chose to: (a)
launch the IMAgent process and inject a payload that clears the exploitation
artefacts from the device; (b) run a Safari process in invisible mode and forward it to
a web page with the next stage.
The web page has a script that verifies the victim and, if the checks pass, receives
the next stage: the Safari exploit.
The Safari exploit uses CVE-2023-32435 to execute a shellcode.
The shellcode executes another kernel exploit in the form of a Mach object file. It
uses the same vulnerabilities: CVE-2023-32434 and CVE-2023-38606. It is also
massive in terms of size and functionality, but completely different from the kernel
exploit written in JavaScript. Certain parts related to exploitation of the above
mentioned vulnerabilities are all that the two share. Still, most of its code is also
dedicated to parsing and manipulation of the kernel memory. It contains various
post-exploitation utilities, which are mostly unused.
The exploit obtains root privileges and proceeds to execute other stages, which load
spyware. We covered these stages in our previous posts.
We are almost done reverse-engineering every aspect of this attack chain, and we will be
releasing a series of articles next year detailing each vulnerability and how it was
exploited.
https://securelist.com/operation-triangulation-the-last-hardware-mystery/111669/ 2/20
1/12/24, 6:10 PM Operation Triangulation: The last (hardware) mystery | Securelist
However, there are certain aspects to one particular vulnerability that we have not been
able to fully understand.