Putter Panda/ APT2/ PLA Unit 61486
Putter Panda is connected to the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) Third General
Staff Department (GSD) 12 [th ] Bureau Military Unit Cover Designator (MUCD) 61486. Unit
61486 supports China’s space surveillance network. The group may be responsible for
space based signal intelligence (SIGINT) collection. The group has been actively conducting
attacks since at least 2007 and is based out of the Zhabai district of Shanghai, China. Unit
61486 shares some infrastructure with Unit 61398.
Putter Panda targets the United States Government, Defense sector, Research
sector, and Technologies sectors. According to CrowdStrike, the United States Defense
17
industry, communication industries, and European satellite and aerospace industries are
particularly targeted.
Putter Panda relies on spear phishing emails containing malicious PDFs and Microsoft
Word Documents to infect its target. Putter Panda’s exploit kit includes two droppers, two
RATs, and two tools. One dropper delivers a payload, such as the 4H RAT, to the victim
system and installs it. The other dropper exclusively delivers the PNGDOWNER tool. Putter
Panda uses the 4H RAT and the 3PARA RAT. The 4H RAT can initiate a remote shell,
enumerate running processes, terminate processes, list files and directories, modify
timestamps, upload files, download files, and delete files. The RAT communicates over HTTP
and the communication is obfuscated by an operation, 1-byte XOR with the key 0xBE. The
3PARA RAT is a second stage, failsafe tool that allows the attacker to regain control of the
system if their initial access vector is removed. The 3PARA RAT creates a file map at startup
to verify that there is not another instance of the RAT running. The RAT is capable of
remaining dormant for prearranged or commanded periods of time. The RAT only has
limited commands, which include retrieving file or disk metadata, changing the working
directory of the current C2 session, executing a command, and listing the current working
directory. The first tool, PNGDOWNER is a simple download and execute tool. The second
tool, HTTPCLIENT is a backup tool. The 3PARA RAT communicates over HTTP and
authenticates with a 256-byte hash and a hard-coded string.