1.5. Procera/Sandvine employees on the ground?
A search of LinkedIn reveals profiles for a Procera Networks “Solutions Engineer” in
Istanbul, Turkey and a Sandvine (formerly Procera Networks) “Resident Engineer –
Senior Level” in Egypt. Sandvine’s “Careers” page describes the responsibilities of a
position entitled “Resident Operations Engineer,” including “performing operations
based activities, residing at the customer’s location,” and “working closely with the
customers’ operations and development teams.” A 2016 Procera “use cases” brochure 2
has a section on “Regulatory Compliance – Traffic Blocking,” which mentions that the
company provides “resident engineering services” to support government mandates on
Procera’s customers that require blocking of services like VPNs or VoIP. In light of this
information, on February 12, 2018, we sent a letter to Sandvine and asked whether
Sandvine maintains a resident solutions engineer or other support staff in Turkey or
Egypt. Sandvine did not respond to this question. The prospect of in-country work of this
sort, especially at the large ISP level, raises questions regarding company awareness of, or
participation in, activities with significant human rights impact.
Our February 12, 2018 letters to Sandvine and Francisco Partners summarized the
findings of our report and contained detailed questions about our findings and their
corporate social responsibility practices. A February 16, 2018 letter from Sandvine
characterized the statements in our letter as “false, misleading, and wrong,” and
demanded that we return the second-hand PacketLogic device that we used to confirm
attribution of our fingerprint. On February 20, 2018, Francisco Partners sent its own
response, stating that the firm “recognizes the importance of corporate governance and
social responsibility.” On March 1, 2018, Citizen Lab replied to Sandvine. Our interactions
with Sandvine and Francisco Partners are discussed in further detail in Section 7 .
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 3/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?