Shellbags, Falcon Telemetry and RDP Bitmap Cache
From a forensic standpoint, the use of the Cookie Editor Chrome extension would have been
challenging to identify, due to the threat actor’s penchant for strict operational security. This
activity was identified via a NewScriptWritten event within Falcon when a JavaScript file
was written to disk by a threat actor-initiated Chrome process. This event captured the unique
extension ID associated with the extension, thereby allowing CrowdStrike incident responders
to validate via the Chrome Store that the JavaScript file was associated with the “Cookie
Editor” plugin. This extension permitted bypassing MFA requirements, as the cookies,
replayed through the Cookie Editor extension, allowed the threat actor to hijack the already
MFA-approved session of a targeted user.
3/21
Shellbags were also instrumental in identifying the cookie theft activity. This artifact very
clearly showed the threat actor accessing targeted users’ machines in sequence and browsing
to the Chrome and DPAPI directories one after another. Parsing Shellbags for an
administrative account leveraged by the threat actor resulted in entries similar to the below.
Figure 2. Shellbag artifacts showing targeting of Chrome directories
CrowdStrike identified forensic evidence that showed the entire attack path: browsing to a
target user’s Chrome and DPAPI directories via administrative share, installing the Cookie
Editor extension, and using Chrome to impersonate the targeted user in the victim’s cloud
tenants. The decryption of the cookies is believed to have taken place offline after exfiltrating
the data via the clipboard in the threat actor’s RDP session.
Figure 3. Representation of lateral movement to cookie theft to O365 authentication
CrowdStrike identified a similar TTP where the threat actor connected via RDP to a user’s
workstation with the workstation owner’s account (e.g., connecting via RDP to user1-pc using
the account user1). In cases where the user had only locked their screen and not signed out,
the threat actor was able to take over the user’s Windows session, as the RDP session would
connect to the existing session of the same user. By examining RDP Bitmap Cache files,
CrowdStrike was able to demonstrate that the threat actor had opened Chrome and exported
all of the user’s saved passwords as plaintext in a CSV file during these sessions.
4/21
Figure 4. RDP Bitmap Cache reconstruction showing exportation of
Chrome passwords
In addition, the threat actor visited sensitive websites that the user had access to, which in one
instance allowed them to browse and download a victim’s customer list. After this, the threat
actor navigated to the user’s Chrome history page and deleted the specific history items
related to threat actor activity, leaving the rest of the user’s Chrome history intact.