y
The attackers behind Operation Prowli are focused on making money from their efforts rather than ideology or
espionage. We currently understand two key flows of revenue in this operation.
The first source of revenue comes from cryptocurrency mining. Typically, cryptocurrency mining is considered a
resource-heavy operation that involves a large upfront investment followed by ongoing traffic and energy costs.
The attackers behind Prowli incur no expenses when they use r2r2 to take over computers owned by others and
use mining pools to launder their gains. Cryptocurrency is a common payload of modern worms, and in this case
as in many others, our attackers prefer to mine Monero, a cryptocurrency focused on privacy and anonymity to a
greater degree than Bitcoin.
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
Second source of revenue is traffic monetization fraud. Traffic monetizers, such as roi777, buy traffic from
“website operators” such as the Prowli attackers and redirect it to domains on demand. Website “operators”
earn money per traffic sent through roi777. The destination domains frequently host different scams, such as
fake services, malicious browser extensions and more.
An example of a fake website visitors are redirected to
This is a dirty business and typically, all three sides, buyers and sellers of traffic and the middlemen, engaging in
illicit activity. In our case, Prowli sells traffic by redirecting visitors from compromised legitimate websites to
domains hosting tech support scams, fake browser extensions, scam products and more. The traffic monetizer
working with the Prowli operation was previously investigated by an anonymous researcher, who was able to
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF i S ! EO f d d h L h h h k d h i777
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
Complete control of infected machines
These php-based shells provide access and remote code execution on different compromised machines,
frequently running vulnerable versions of WordPress.
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
The worm runs commands on remote victims and then reports credentials to a C2 server
The commands used were:
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
Part of a PHP file executed on a vulnerable server
The PHP injector function php_in checks whether the targeted PHP file outputs HTML and if it does, injects a
snippet of JavaScript code into the generated page. This snippet starts a process that ends with innocent
website visitors redirected to a malicious website.
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
The Prowli attackers intermediate between infected websites and roi777
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF Th i j t d ! d l d th J S i t i t f t t t t i [ ]tk/ i t j th t i t t
The injected code loads another JavaScript snippet from stats.startreceive[.]tk/script.js that in turn, requests a
URL from an obfuscated server side PHP file stats.startreceive[.]tk/send.php and redirects the visitor to the
provided URL. We believe that the send.php page belongs to roi777 and is being used by Prowli as the
integration point between roi777’s infrastructure and “website operators”. To make sure roi777 doesn’t track
the list of websites controlled by Prowli operators, the Prowli code injector script uses a redirect website
(stats.startreceive[.]tk) on which the send.php page is hosted rather than injecting the code into infected
websites.
Before and after the redirector script is deobfuscated
The send.php page retrieves the target domain name to which the victim is later redirected to from roi777[.]com.
This website provides randomly chosen domains, all redirecting to different websites of different types. The
attackers append a unique id number to a target domain, allowing roi777 to keep track of who is redirecting
With PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF !
traffic.
An example of a tech support scam visitors are redirected to
To sum it up, Prowli takes over legitimate websites and turns them, without their knowing, into redirectors of
traffic towards malicious websites, some of which are simple scams, others reference tech support scams.