Rules of Engagement and United States Code
This appendix discusses the basic principles and laws (rules of engagement) that
govern (or authorize) how commanders, leaders, and personnel conduct cyberspace
operations and electromagnetic warfare. The United States Constitution establishes the
authority of the President as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and gives
authority for Congress to fund and regulate the Armed Forces. The President, as
Commander in Chief, commands the missions of the Armed Forces and, according to
the laws passed by Congress, administers the Armed Forces.
INTRODUCTION
B-1. Army commanders conduct cyberspace operations and EW when directed by the orders of the
President of the United States, the Secretary of Defense, and combatant commander(s) designated to perform
operations on behalf of the President. These orders fall under the President’s authority from Article II, United
States Constitution, the Bill of Rights, other executive order(s), presidential policy, DOD and Department of
the Army regulations, United States treaty obligations, and other laws (including funding appropriations)
passed by Congress.
B-2. Within this legal framework, Army forces conduct cyberspace and EW operations as authorized
through executive orders, OPORDs; ROEs; and the policies directed by the Secretary of Defense and the
CCDRs. Army forces conduct cyberspace operations and EW as part of the joint force. USCYBERCOM has
overall responsibility for overseeing DOD cyberspace operations.
RULES OF ENGAGEMENT
B-3. Commanders, leaders, and personnel must understand and apply the basic principles of the law of
armed conflict, rules of engagement, general restrictions, precautions in attack, separation of military
activities, special protections, national sovereignty, and environmental considerations as they relate to
international law. The law of armed conflict is that part of international law that regulates armed hostilities,
which rests on fundamental principles of military necessity, humanity, proportionality, distinction, and honor,
all of which apply to how Army forces conduct cyberspace operations and EW.
B-4. Rules of engagement are directives issued by a competent military authority that delineate the
circumstances and limitations under which U.S. forces will initiate or continue combat engagement with
other forces encountered. Rules of engagement is how the operational commanders regulate armed forces in
the context of applicable political and military policy and domestic and international law. Rules of
engagement provides a framework that encompasses national policy goals, mission requirements, and the
rule of law. Operational commanders make all cyberspace operations and EW-related decisions considering
applicable rules of engagement.
B-5. Targeting generally restricted areas, civilian populations, and civilian or protected objects are typically
not intentional unless they become threat actors that participate or take a direct part in combat, singularly or
as a group. In such cases, these entities lose their protection against direct attack. If the enemy uses civilians
as human shields, provided they are not directly involved in hostilities, the civilians are still neutral actors.
Commanders must consider civilians used as human shields when determining the level of excessiveness
used during a planned attack. The commander ensures to take feasible precautions to reduce the risk of harm
to civilians. Normally targeting civilian actors is not accepted; however, IO will conduct target-actor analysis
and direct the application of information-related capabilities to include cyberspace operations and EW effects
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 B-1
Appendix B
in support of countering misinformation, disinformation, and to inform and influence both adversary and
friendly civilian actors.
B-6. Civilian objects are those objects or locations that are not lawful military objectives. Commanders
cannot intentionally target exclusively civilian objects or areas for attack. Furthermore, where such objects
or locations are collocated with, or are in proximity to, enemy targets, the responsible commander must
conduct a collateral damage analysis. If a protected object or an object on the no-strike list will be affected,
commanders must take appropriate steps to mitigate effects or request removal of an object from the no-strike
list before lawfully authorizing a strike on the object. The enemy’s use of a civilian and protected object or
location for military or combat purposes may result in the loss of protected status, rendering it subject to
attack.
B-7. Commanders must take positive steps and precautions to avoid excessive incidental civilian casualties
and damage to civilian property. Targeting team members should ensure sound target intelligence and target
vetting are employed during target development and in selecting enemy objectives, and not civilian objects,
for attacks. Attacks against installations containing structures that affect natural resources-including dams,
dikes, and nuclear power facilities, must be carefully considered as creating potentially catastrophic collateral
damage.
UNITED STATES CODE
B-8. Army forces conduct operations directed by the President while adhering to appropriations,
authorizations, and statutes of the USC established by Congress. These statutes cover broad areas of law,
including domestic security, the regulation of the Armed Forces, Federal crimes, the National Guard,
information technology acquisition and service, spectrum management, and intelligence.
B-9. USC Title 6, Domestic Security, establishes responsibilities for information analysis and infrastructure
protection, chief information officers, and cyberspace security oversight. USC Title 6 responsibilities include
comprehensive assessments of key resources, critical infrastructure vulnerabilities, and identifying priorities
for protective and supportive measures regarding threats.
B-10. USC Title 10, The Armed Forces, enables the Army to organize, train, equip, and provide land,
cyberspace operations, and EW units and headquarters. USC Title 10 authorities and restrictions provide
context and foundation for how the Secretary of Defense directs military cyberspace operations, EW, and
military intelligence operations.
B-11. USC Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure. Army forces conduct cyberspace operations and EW
in compliance with Federal law and take measures to ensure operations respect the rights of persons against
unlawful searches and seizures according to the 4th Amendment. Coordination with the United States Army
Criminal Investigation Command ensures appropriate investigation of criminal activity on the DODIN under
Title 18 authorities. The United States Army Criminal Investigation Command is most directly responsible
for enforcing USC Title 18 crimes as they affect the DODIN or Army personnel. USC Title 18 includes those
crimes conducted in cyberspace.
B-12. USC Title 32, the National Guard, defines Army National Guard units as state military units that are
equipped and trained according to Federal statutory authorization. The Army National Guard may conduct
missions for their state, but paid for by the Federal government under USC Title 32 if the Secretary of Defense
determines the mission is in the interests of the DOD.
B-13. USC Title 40, Ch. 113, Information Technology Acquisition, applies to the Army and all Federal
agencies. USC Title 40 establishes the responsibilities of the agency heads and agency chief information
officers and guidance for the acquisition of information technology.
B-14. USC Title 44, Public Printing and Documents, establishes responsibilities of agency heads for statutory
requirements and authority for ensuring information security and information resource management. Duties
and requirements include information security in cyberspace.
B-15. USC Title 47, Telecommunications, prescribes the statutory requirements and authority for access to,
and use of, the EMS within the United States and Possessions to Federal agencies. The chief information
officer/ G-6, as outlined in AR 5-12, implements national, international, DOD, joint, host-nation, and
B-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Rules of Engagement and United States Code
Headquarters, Department of the Army spectrum management policies and guidance throughout the Army.
In this capacity, the chief information officer/G-6 ensures compliance with Title 47 USC as well as other
applicable federal, DOD, and military department EMS governance and policy to minimize radio frequency
interference at DOD and Service test ranges and installations for activities such as Global Positioning System
testing and EA clearances for training, testing, and evaluation.
B-16. USC Title 50, War and National Defense provide authorities concerning the conduct of both military
and intelligence activities of the U.S. Government. Intelligence activities conducted by the United States
Government must be appropriately authorized, conform to the Constitution, and conducted under presidential
authority. Executive Order 12333 establishes the framework and organization of the intelligence community
as directed by the President of the United States. For example, the order identifies the National Security
Agency as the lead for SIGINT. DOD policy documents, including DODM 5240.01 establishes DOD policy
for the conduct of intelligence operations.
B-17. The Army strictly limits and controls the collection of information on U.S. civilians in the United
States. AR 381-10 identifies the types, means, and constraints concerning collection, retention, and
dissemination of information in the United States and on U.S. civilians. This regulation applies to cyberspace
within the boundaries of the United States and U.S. civilians abroad. Table B-1, page B-4, summarizes USC
sections specific to cyberspace roles. USC Title 18 exempts criminal intelligence from some constraints
regarding the collection and retention of U.S. civilians’ information.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 B-3
Appendix B
Table B-1. United States Code with specific cyberspace roles
|UnitedStatesCode|Title|Key Focus|PrincipleOrganization|Role in Cyberspace|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Title 6|DomesticSecurity|Homeland security|Department ofHomeland Security|Security of U.S. cyberspace|
|Title 10|ArmedForces|National defense|Department ofDefense|Provide, train, and equip U.S.forces for military operations incyberspace|
|Title 18Title 28|Crimes andCriminalProcedureJudiciaryand JudicialProcedure|Law enforcement|Department ofJustice|Crime prevention,apprehension, and prosecutionof criminals operating incyberspace|
|Title 32|NationalGuard|National defenseand civil supporttraining andoperations in theU.S.|State Army NationalGuard, State AirNational Guard|Domestic consequencemanagement (if activated forfederal service, the NationalGuard is integrated into theTitle 10, Armed Forces|
|Title 40|PublicBuildings,Property,and Works|Chief InformationOfficer roles andresponsibilities|All federaldepartments andagencies|Establish and enforcestandards for acquisition andsecurity of informationtechnologies|
|Title 44|PublicPrinting andDocuments|Defines basicagencyresponsibilities andauthorities forinformationsecurity policy|All federaldepartments andagencies|The foundation forcybersecurity activities, asoutlined in Department ofDefense Instruction 8330.01,Cybersecurity Activities Supportto DOD Information NetworkOperations|
|Title 50|War andNationalDefense|A broad spectrumof military, foreign,intelligence, andcounterintelligenceactivities|Commands,Services, andagencies under theDepartment ofDefense andintelligencecommunityagencies alignedunder the Office ofthe Director ofNationalIntelligence|Secure U.S. interests byconducting military and foreignintelligence operations incyberspace|
LAWS AND POLICIES PROTECTING UNITED STATES CITIZENS
B-18. The U.S. does not have a single federal law or policy regulating cyberspace security, information
security, or privacy for U.S. citizens. In addition to federal laws and policies, many states within the U.S.
have their cyberspace security and data breach notification laws regulated by industry-specific federal
regulations and state legislation, with varying scope and jurisdiction. Table B-2, pages B-5 and B-6, describes
many federal laws and policies that protect U.S. citizens in cyberspace and the EMS. These laws and policies
only protect U.S. citizens nationally. U.S. citizens outside of the United States are subject to the rules of the
international country or state in which they reside or visit.
B-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Rules of Engagement and United States Code
Table B-2. Federal cyberspace security laws and policies protecting United States citizens
|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) (U.S.Code 15, Chapter 98)|Requires organizations in the U.S. to prove their cybersecuritycredentials. It applies only to public companies.|
|Securities and ExchangeCommission (SEC) RegulationS-P (Code of FederalRegulations 17, Part 248,Subpart A)|Privacy of consumer financial information and safeguarding personalinformation. A security regulation that requires appropriatecybersecurity measures. Applies to all U.S. and foreign brokers,dealers, investment companies, and investment advisers that areregister with the Securities and Exchange Commission.|
|Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act(GLBA) (U.S. Code 15,Subchapter I)|Is both an information security and privacy law, and applies to financialinstitutions and includes banks, insurance companies, security firms,non-bank mortgage lenders, auto dealers, and tax preparers.|
|Federal Trade Commission Act,Section 5 (U.S. Code 15,Section 45)|Both an information security regulation requiring appropriatecybersecurity measures and a privacy law. Applies to almost everyorganization in the U.S. with the exception of banks and commoncarriers|
|Health Insurance Portability andAccountability Act (HIPAA)(Code of Federal Regulations45, Part 160 and 164|Has security, privacy, and breach notification rules. Applies to healthcare providers, health plans, health care clearinghouses, and incertain cases, business associates of these types of businesses calledcovered entities. As a result, this Act can cover organizations asdiverse as health insurance companies and pharmaceuticalcompanies.|
|Defense Federal AcquisitionRegulation (DFAR) (Code ofFederal Regulations 48,252.204-7012)|A cybersecurity* regulation that applies to the U.S. Department ofDefense contractors. Requires contractors and subcontractors thatprocess, store, or transmit defense information to provide adequatesecurity to safeguard on unclassified information systems.|
|Children’s Online PrivacyProtection Act (COPPA) (U.S.Code 15, Chapter 91, and Codeof Federal Regulations 16, Part312)|Is both a privacy and cybersecurity law that applies to websites andonline services that are directed at children under the age of 13. Alsoapplies if the operator of the site as actual knowledge that childrenunder the age of 13 are using a website. Regulates how such websitescollect, use, and/or disclose personal information from and aboutchildren.|
|Federal Protection Act of 1974(U.S. Code 5, Chapter 5,Section 552a)|Applies only to agencies of the U.S. Federal Government and governsthe collection, maintenance, use, and dissemination of personallyidentifiable information about individuals that is maintained in systemsor records by federal agencies. It prohibits the disclosure ofinformation from a system of records controlled by the federal agencywithout written consent of the subject individual, unless the disclosureis permitted under one of 12 statutory exceptions. This applies to allindividuals that are residents of the U.S. (both lawfully or unlawfully)|
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 B-5
Appendix B
Table B-2. Federal cyberspace security laws and policies protecting United States citizens (continued)
|Name|Description|
|---|---|
|Consumer Privacy ProtectionAct of 2017 (U.S. House ofRepresentatives Bill 4081)|Ensures the privacy and security of sensitive person information, toprevent and mitigate identity theft and to provide notice of securitybreaches involving sensitive personal information. It also enhanceslaw enforcement assistance and other protections against securitybreaches, fraudulent access, and misuse of personal information. Itapplies to organizations that collect, use, access, transmit, store, ordispose of sensitive personally identifiable information of 10,000 ormore U.S. citizens during any 12-month period.|
|Food and Drug Administration(Code of Federal Regulations21, Part II)|Regulation for the use of electronic records in clinical investigations. Isa cybersecurity law that applies to organizations involved in clinicalinvestigation of medical products, including sponsors, clinicalinvestigators, institutional review boards, and contract researchorganizations. Many of these operations also fall under the HealthInsurance Portability and Accountability Act. It concerns the use ofinformation technology systems of these organizations, including anyelectronic systems used to create, modify, maintain, archive, retrieve,or transmit records used in clinical investigations.|
|Commodity Futures TradingCommission DerivativesClearing OrganizationsRegulation (Code of FederalRegulations 17, Part 39,Subpart B, and 39.18-Systemsafeguards)|Applies to derivatives clearing organizations (entities acting as amedium for clearing transactions in commodities for future delivery orcommodity option transactions).|
|Electronics CommunicationsPrivacy Act and StoredCommunications Act (U.S.Code 18, Chapters 119 and 121|Together, are also known as the Wiretap Act and are privacy statutes.Originally designed to limit warrantless surveillance, however, alsoforbid the intentional use, disclosure, or access to any wire, oral, orelectronic communications without authorization.|
|European-U.S. Privacy Shield|Protects European residents’ data held and processed byorganizations in the U.S.|
B-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Appendix C