1 Characteristics: • The DOJ complaint detailed targeting
Characteristics:

Research into a targeted organization's

personnel.

Research into a targeted organization's

third-party vendors with likely SWIFT
system access to understand the mechanics
of SWIFT transactions.
Operational specifics:
Based on observed intrusions, we believe the
group is diligent in targeting individuals with
accounts that can enable further accesses
into targeted organizations. Additional
details released by DOJ give us insight into
the significant time and resources allocated
to gathering information. This information
gathering likely supported APT38 activity.

APT38 operators made multiple attempts

to target a mailbox of an account manager,
possibly to conduct research to determine
which employees have access to SWIFTrelated systems.
research as well as social media activity
that may have supported APT38 operations
based on targeting and timing overlaps.
—
In at least one instance, reconnaissance
activity of a victim bank was conducted
from North Korean IP space. This
research identified that the targeted
bank's connection to the SWIFT network
was managed by a third party and
that the bank's employees remotely
connected to the third party's server
to review SWIFT messages. APT38
leveraged this information a month later
by incorporating this information into
malware development.
—
Per the complaint, the email account
watsonhenny@gmail.com was used to
send LinkedIn invitations to employees
of a bank later targeted by APT38. The
same account had a contact list with
email addresses for 37 employees of
the same targeted bank, suggesting a
wider effort to establish connections and
potential intrusion vectors.
actors also exploited an insecure out-of-date
version of Apache Struts2 to execute code
on a targeted system. Further, the recent
DOJ complaint provides insight into initial
compromise techniques conducted by North
Korean operators against APT38 targets,
which may have been leveraged as part of
the initial compromise into the targeted
organizations.

A watering hole campaign hosted on the

website of a Polish financial governing
body (Komisja Nadzoru Finansowego, or
KNF) was linked to multiple additional
watering holes in Latin America as well as a
cryptocurrency news page. These strategic
web compromises are believed to have
been used to infect multiple organizations,
including some in Europe and North
America when victims visited the site.

This activity is noteworthy and while
we acknowledge the operators detailed in
the complaint share resources and ultimate
sponsorship with APT38, we do not have

the evidence at this time to attribute this
spear-phishing activity to APT38.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 19
Internal Reconnaissance
Internal Reconnaissance