Advanced Persistent Threat Actors Targeting U.S. Think Tanks
Callout Box : This Advisory uses the MITRE Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common
Knowledge (ATT&CK®) framework. See the ATT&CK for Enterprise for all referenced threat actor
tactics and techniques.
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) have observed persistent continued cyber intrusions by advanced persistent threat (APT) actors
targeting U.S. think tanks. This malicious activity is often, but not exclusively, directed at individuals
and organizations that focus on international affairs or national security policy. [1] The following
guidance may assist U.S. think tanks in developing network defense procedures to prevent or rapidly
detect these attacks.
APT actors have relied on multiple avenues for initial access. These have included low-effort
capabilities such as spearphishing emails and third-party message services directed at both corporate
and personal accounts, as well as exploiting vulnerable web-facing devices and remote connection
capabilities. Increased telework during the COVID-19 pandemic has expanded workforce reliance on
remote connectivity, affording malicious actors more opportunities to exploit those connections and to
blend in with increased traffic. Attackers may leverage virtual private networks (VPNs) and other
remote work tools to gain initial access or persistence on a victim’s network. When successful, these
low-effort, high-reward approaches allow threat actors to steal sensitive information, acquire user
credentials, and gain persistent access to victim networks.
Given the importance that think tanks can have in shaping U.S. policy, CISA and FBI urge individuals
and organizations in the international affairs and national security sectors to immediately adopt a
heightened state of awareness and implement the critical steps listed in the Mitigations section of this
Advisory.
1 CyberScoop | As Europe prepares to vote, Microsoft warns of Fancy Bear attacks on democratic think tanks | 20-FEB-2020 | URL:
https://www.cyberscoop.com/european-think-tanks-hack-microsoft-fancy-bear-russia/
To report suspicious or criminal activity related to information found in this Joint Cybersecurity Advisory, contact
your local FBI field office at www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field, or the FBI’s 24/7 Cyber Watch (CyWatch) at
(855) 292-3937 or by e-mail at CyWatch@fbi.gov. When available, please include the following information
regarding the incident: date, time, and location of the incident; type of activity; number of people affected; type of
equipment used for the activity; the name of the submitting company or organization; and a designated point of
contact. To request incident response resources or technical assistance related to these threats, contact CISA at
CISAServiceDesk@cisa.dhs.gov.
This document is marked TLP:WHITE. Disclosure is not limited. Sources may use TLP:WHITE when information
carries minimal or no foreseeable risk of misuse, in accordance with applicable rules and procedures for public
release. Subject to standard copyright rules, TLP:WHITE information may be distributed without restriction.
For more information on the Traffic Light Protocol, see http://www.us-cert.gov/tlp/ .
TLP: WHITE