Looking Ahead
The use of MESSAGETAP and targeting of sensitive text messages and call detail records at
scale is representative of the evolving nature of Chinese cyber espionage campaigns observed
by FireEye. APT41 and multiple other threat groups attributed to Chinese state-sponsored actors
have increased their targeting of upstream data entities since 2017. These organizations, located
multiple layers above end-users, occupy critical information junctures in which data from
multitudes of sources converge into single or concentrated nodes. Strategic access into these
organizations, such as telecommunication providers, enables the Chinese intelligence services an
ability to obtain sensitive data at scale for a wide range of priority intelligence requirements.
In 2019, FireEye observed four telecommunication organizations targeted by APT41 actors.
Further, four additional telecommunications entities were targeted in 2019 by separate threat
groups with suspected Chinese state-sponsored associations. Beyond telecommunication
organizations, other client verticals that possess sensitive records related to specific individuals of
interest, such as major travel services and healthcare providers, were also targeted by APT41.
This is reflective of an evolving Chinese targeting trend focused on both upstream data and
targeted surveillance. For deeper analysis regarding recent Chinese cyber espionage targeting
trends, customers may refer to the FireEye Threat Intelligence Portal. This topic was also briefed
at FireEye Cyber Defense Summit 2019.
FireEye assesses this trend will continue in the future. Accordingly, both users and organizations
must consider the risk of unencrypted data being intercepted several layers upstream in their
cellular communication chain. This is especially critical for highly targeted individuals such as
dissidents, journalists and officials that handle highly sensitive information. Appropriate
safeguards such as utilizing a communication program that enforces end-to-end encryption can
mitigate a degree of this risk. Additionally, user education must impart the risks of transmitting
sensitive data over SMS. More broadly, the threat to organizations that operate at critical
information junctures will only increase as the incentives for determined nation-state actors to
obtain data that directly support key geopolitical interests remains.