Without powerful detection, there can be no response.
This service hopping behavior enables the defender to focus on this type of
activity and enables another avenue for detection.
Countering threats with Azure Security Center Advanced Threat
Detection
Azure Security Center helps protect, detect, and respond to security threats
against Azure cloud-based resources. Security Center provides protection by
analyzing the security status of Azure resources and then providing
recommendations on how to increase the level of security.
Protection is just the first level. The ability to detect that an intrusion has taken
place is critical. Without powerful detection, there can be no response. Azure
Security Center uses advanced threat detection technologies and
methodologies to detect threats that would have been very difficult to find prior
to the advent of machine learning and big data.
Azure Security Center uses a number of methods that work together to provide
advanced threat detection. These methods include:

Atomic detections

Threat intelligence feeds
Behavioral analysis
Anomaly detection

Detection fusion

Atomic detections
Atomic detections are based on well-known malicious patterns that are
consistent with indicators of compromise (IoC). These patterns are not subject to
mutation, and therefore are considered unambiguous. They can be determined
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  11
by a single entity, such as a single packet, single behavior, or single event
(recorded in a log entry). This determination is similar to how an intrusion
detection system (IDS) works, but instead of using on-the-wire packet analysis,
atomic threat detection typically uses log entries.
Atomic threat detection has a high return on investment because development
overhead is relatively low. In addition, there is also a very low false positive rate.
Most commodity malware can be found with atomic detections.
A disadvantage of atomic detection is that it isn’t the best method for detecting
more sophisticated attacks. Atomic detections are very threat specific, and so it
is relatively easy for skilled attackers to evade them. However, this isn’t a
problem because Azure Security Center uses a multi-tier detection strategy that
provides the ability to detect attacks at multiple levels.
Suspicious processes provide an example of an attack type that lends itself to
atomic detection. In the example seen in Figure 5, you can see that Azure
Security Center has detected that the mimikatz.exe process is running. Mimikatz
is a tool that has been used by malicious attackers to steal credentials from a
compromised machine.
12 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
Figure 5. Azure Security Center detects and alerts on the mimikatz malware
Threat intelligence feeds
Azure Security Center uses a number of threat intelligence (TI) feeds, such as
those from the Microsoft Digital Crime Unit, to help detect potential threats
against Azure resources. Azure Security Center uses these feeds primarily for
bot detection.
Several actions are possible if a virtual machine hosted on Azure appears in one
of these feeds. For example, observing network traffic can confirm that the
potentially compromised virtual machine is in contact with a command-andcontrol server. If this network communication is successfully verified, it’s possible
to take over the compromised VM’s DNS, which can provide additional insight
into the botnet infrastructure and IP addresses used by the command-and
control servers.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  13
Similar to atomic detections, TI feeds provide a high ROI for threat detection
because of the simple logic required to attain high fidelity alerts. And as more TI
providers are added, more detections are possible.
Azure Security Center alerts users when their virtual machines are discovered to
be communicating with command-and-control servers. These connections are
consistent with bot links from computers infected with malware similar to Alina
or Conficker. Figure 6 shows an alert generated by Azure Security Center based
on such a detection.
Figure 6. Azure Security Center showing communication with a C&C server
Behavioral analysis
Atomic and threat intelligence-based detections are essentially pattern
matching. To detect more complex threats, more advanced methods of threat
detection are required.
One such method is behavioral analysis. In contrast to pattern matching,
behavioral analysis moves beyond pattern matching and signatures and focuses
on the malicious behavior . This focus enables defenders to counter attackers
who generate an almost infinite number of variants for a particular malware.
Malware designers can change the hash, switch a bit or byte, change a packet or
pattern; each of these changes would require a new signature.
Behavioral analysis drills down to what the malware is doing on the system.
There’s no need to pattern match each malware variant if the behavior of the
malware can be identified. In the final analysis, it’s the behavior that is of most
14 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
interest. Each malicious behavior can represent literally thousands of individual
signature variants. Behavioral analysis is variant resistant.
However, there are gray areas in some of the behaviors. Such borderline cases
could lead to false positives. When the system detects these ambiguous
behaviors, Azure Security Center looks for other behaviors or detections to
confirm the initial suspicion. More information about the confirmation process is
provided in the discussion on detection fusion later in this section.
An example of behavioral analysis: system processes that run in an abnormal
context. Azure Security Center can detect these situations and fire an alert. In
the example seen in, you can see that Azure Security Center has detected that
SVCHOST was running in an abnormal context. SVCHOST is a container process
for many other system processes and malware often tries to take advantage of
this to hide its activity.
Figure 7. Azure Security Center detects processes running in an abnormal context
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  15
Anomaly detection
Behavioral analysis discovers known threats by detecting known behaviors. This
process is immensely useful, and significantly extends detection capabilities
beyond simple signature-based detections.
The logical next step is to detect unknown threats, which is where anomaly
detection comes into play.
With anomaly detection, the system builds a baseline. The baseline is defined by
the history of a certain element of the virtual machine. If a statistically significant
deviation from that baseline is detected, an alert might be generated.
It’s important to note that while the system might generate an alert, it’s possible