Methodology
This report presents findings from a year-long investigation ending in November 2018
on Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) spoofing activities affecting civilian GNSS
receivers in the Russian Federation, its occupied territories, and the Syrian Arab Republic.
Through our reporting we seek to illustrate the effectiveness of using publicly available
data and technologies to report on GNSS interference activities. The report presents
case studies on three unique applications of GNSS spoofing, highlighting Russia’s role
in pioneering the use of these capabilities to protect and promote its strategic interests.
In each case study, we relied on publicly available information such as: GNSS positioning
data, official records, news and social media reporting, and satellite imagery. Following
an examination of publicly available data, we collaborated with The University of Texas
at Austin (UT). Using signal recordings from a GPS receiver based on the International
Space Station (ISS) in low-Earth-orbit (LEO), we characterized, mapped, and identified
potential basing locations and equipment involved in GNSS spoofing activities in Syria.
We then examine the broader ramifications of these findings.
Any mention of GNSS refers to space-based navigation systems such as the US Global
Positioning System (GPS/NAVSTAR), Russia’s Global Navigation Satellite System
(GLONASS), the European Union’s Galileo System, China’s Beidou Navigation Satellite
System, India’s Navigation Indian Constellation (NavIC), and Japan’s Quazi-Zenith
Satellite System (QZSS). Unless explicitly stated, the specific navigation systems targeted
by the GNSS spoofing activities detailed in this report have not been confirmed. This
report’s investigations only detail activities that have affected civilian GNSS receivers.
Civilian systems are more vulnerable to interference activities like GNSS jamming and
spoofing than encrypted military GNSS receivers.
C4ADS used two distinct investigative methods to identify and map GNSS spoofing
activities in Russia and Syria: (1) spoofing detection through marine vessel Automatic
Identification System (AIS) path histories and (2) spoofing detection through a LEO
satellite GNSS receiver. Each method presents ways in which publicly and commercially
available data can be used to identify potential basing locations for devices used to
conduct denial-of-service GNSS spoofing activities. The methodologies detailed in this
report are highly replicable and scalable, and can be applied to other sources of GNSS
positioning data, such as fitness tracking applications and aircraft positioning signals.
Vessel Detection Methodology
In order to find instances of denial-of-service GNSS spoofing affecting maritime
navigation systems off the coast of the Russian Federation and Crimea, C4ADS, using
technology from a maritime risk analytics company, used GNSS positioning information
derived from maritime vessel AIS data consistent with known behaviors exhibited
by victim receivers. In this case, C4ADS identified vessels that reported positioning
information at civilian airports, mirroring public reports of GNSS spoofing in Russia.
C4ADS manually verified and cross-referenced these path histories with thise of other
vessels exhibiting similar patterns of behavior in order to help confirm that suspected
victim vessel path histories are not the result of malfunctioning AIS equipment.
5
Above Us Only Stars
Then, using Palantir Foundry, C4ADS conducted both trends analysis and targeted
investigations to identify where and when vessels fell victim to spoofing events.
After C4ADS identified vessels affected by GNSS spoofing activities, we conducted
investigations to determine actors present at each location at the time of the events.
C4ADS collected information from records and reporting in English, Russian, and
Ukrainian. Using line of sight analyses derived from the location information of ships
affected by the spoofing activity, we identified potential land-based GNSS spoofing
transmitter positions. We conducted further research on locations identified through
this analysis using official property ownership and transfer records, official corporate
records, and news and social media posts. Finally, we combined the above analysis
with information contained in notice to airmen (NOTAM) alerts and satellite imagery to
identify potential systems and motivations for this activity.
6
Above Us Only Stars
7
Above Us Only Stars
Transmitter Localization from Low-Earth Orbit Methodology
C4ADS, through close partnership with and technical expertise from researchers from
UT Austin, collected, analyzed, and geolocated denial-of-service spoofing signals using
a GPS receiver In low-Earth orbit (LEO) aboard the ISS. [4] In total, we collected three
recordings on frequencies used by the GPS L1 and L2 frequency bands on three days
in the spring of 2018. Researchers at UT Austin analyzed the raw signal data and used
Doppler-based geolocation, illustrated below, to identify the origin point of the GPS
spoofing transmissions.
Once UT Austin researchers analyzed and geolocated the interference signals, C4ADS
used publicly available satellite imagery, official records, and imagery posted on social
media to identify potential electronic warfare (EW) assets in use at the source location
and their intended effects on target receivers.
8
Above Us Only Stars
This report is not designed to be an analysis of any country’s laws or regulations,
nor does it make conclusions about the intent or legality behind the GNSS spoofing
activities detailed herein. We seek instead to profile and expose a critical issue of public
interest. The mention of any individual, company, organization, or other entity in
this report does not imply the violation of any law or international agreement, and
should not be construed as such .
Technical Definitions
This report does not cover all existing forms of GNSS interference and thus, it relies on
the following definitions to delineate between different variants of interference:


GNSS Jamming, also referred to as brute force jamming, is when an attacker
generates noise-like signals at frequencies used by a GNSS system in order to
prevent GNSS receivers from tracking authentic signals. [5] [6]


Denial-of-Service GNSS Spoofing, sometimes referred to as ‘smart-jamming,’ is
when an attacker mimics authentic GNSS signals in order to hijack target GNSS
receiver tracking loops and feed false or even blank navigational information to
the vulnerable receiver. [7] In most cases, the effects of denial-of-service spoofing
are readily apparent to the user. Unless explicitly stated, references to ‘GNSS
spoofing’ in this report will refer only to denial-of-service spoofing attacks.


Deception GNSS Spoofing is when an attacker mimics authentic GNSS signals
in order to hijack target GNSS receiver tracking loops, feed false positioning or
timing information to the target receiver, and covertly misdirect the receiver
and its platform to some desired location. Successful attacks will deceive both
the target receiver and its user. [8]


Among GNSS interference experts, there are competing definitions on when spoofing
can be categorized as either deception or denial-of-service. [9] For the purpose of this
paper we use the above definitions. However, for more information about alternate
definitions, see "Unmanned Aircraft Capture and Control via GPS Spoofing” by Kerns,
Shepard, Bhatti, and Humphreys.
9
Above Us Only Stars