Characteristics of hacking activities of SectorJ04 group in 2019
The following are the features of the first half of 2019 activities identified through the analysis of
the SectorJ04 group’s hacking activities.
Increased hacking activities targeting East and Southeast Asia
Changes in spam email format and hacking methods
Changes in targets of hacking from specific organizations and industry groups to large
number of irregular ones
https://threatrecon.nshc.net/2019/08/29/sectorj04-groups-increased-activity-in-2019/ 6/24
8/29/2019 SectorJ04 Group’s Increased Activity in 2019 – ThreatRecon
Although the SectorJ04 group mainly targeted countries located in Europe or North America, it
has recently expanded its field of activities to countries located in Southeast Asia and East Asia.
In particular, the frequency of hacking attacks targeting South Korea has increased, and spam
emails targeting China were found in May.
The changes could also be seen in attachments to spam emails used by attackers. Existing spam
emails used attachments in the form of malicious documents, but attachments with HTM and
HTML extensions were also found and the text included links to download malicious documents
directly.
The SectorJ04 group’s initial spam emails had no mail content or only short sentences, but the
latest spam emails found were elaborately written and included images. A new type of backdoor
called AdroMut and a new malware called FlowerPippi was also found coming from SectorJ04.
Prior to 2019, the SectorJ04 group conducted large-scale hacking activities for financial gain
using exploit kits on websites to install ransomware, such as Locky and GlobeImporter, along with
its banking Trojan, on its victims computers. But after 2019 the group has changed its hacking
strategy to attack using spam email. In particular, a number of remote control malware are utilized
to gain access to resources such as email accounts and system login information from the
infected machine to send more spam emails and distribute their malware.