1. Overview
Operation Sphinx is a cyber-espionage activity in the Middle East. The main victims are political
and military organizations in Egypt, Israel and possibly other countries. Sensitive data theft is
what the attackers plotted for during the period from June, 2014 to November, 2015 when the
activity was in its prime. We encountered some timestamps of the samples to be as early as
December, 2011 which suggests the attack might be started much earlier, though further sound
proof is needed. The main approach of Sphinx is watering hole attack on social websites. Until
now, we have obtained 314 pieces of sample malicious codes and 7 C2 domains.
A common method attackers use to hide their trace is to cloak malicious exe files with Word or
PDF icons so that users will not tell the difference without looking into the file attribution or
property. The Sphinx attackers adopt it as well, but they also attempt to conceal the attacks by
making the master program “invisible”. In our analysis, Sphinx’ master program was found to be
disguised with Word icon in order to trap users to click. Upon clicking, the master program
released several DLL files. The files can be categorized into 9 types of plugin modules by
functionality. The core DLL fill could be self-started after registering as a plugin of the resource
management panel. Then, based on different configurations, remote injection was triggered to
inject other functional DLL to corresponding running process. This way, when the malware was
running, the master program had already been split into several imperceptible pieces. That
decreases the risk for the targets to realize the existence of the malware. Multiple encryption
algorithms were adopted simultaneously to hamper the detection.
Seeing from the PDB paths, we suspect that the attackers were using continuous integration tools,
which indicts that the scale of operation may massive and the developers of the malware are
professionals in relevant fields. Furthermore, we speculate that some third party organizations
were involved in helping develop the malware to support the Middle East’s attackers.