What is server-side ad insertion (SSAI)?
Server-side ad insertion, or SSAI, was developed by publishers to create a better end-user ad
experience. Ads are “stitched” into the fabric of video content so that there aren’t delays or
hiccups caused by launching an ad player. SSAI is commonly used for advertising on several
“edge” device types, such as CTVs, smart phones, gaming consoles, and others. Delivering video
ad content through SSAI offers advertisers many benefits, including user personalization and
latency reduction.
Figure 2: Schematic of how SSAI spoofing relates to the ad tech ecosystem
While SSAI is an elegant solution to ad serving, it’s still in its infancy. As with all new technologies,
White Ops can see fraudsters finding the holes in the system and wiggling their way through.
Fraudsters have found a way to spoof edge devices to replicate SSAI services.
https://www.whiteops.com/blog/giving-fraudsters-the-cold-shoulder-inside-the-largest-connected-tv-bot-attack 3/8
4/17/2020 White Ops | Inside the Largest Connected TV Botnet Attack
SSAI spoofing, the key fraud technique that ICEBUCKET’s operators used, occurs when
fraudsters send out a bunch of ad requests from data centers for “spoofed” or faked edge
devices. The data center source is expected for real SSAI providers. Rather than show the ads to
humans, the fraudsters call the reporting APIs indicating the ad has been “shown”. Often, the
information available to advertisers in an SSAI environment is limited to the device user-agent
and IP address. This information may be sent in the “X-Device-User-Agent” and “X-Device-IP”
HTTP headers, as per the IAB VAST guidelines, or through other similar headers. While falsifying
this data is relatively simple, the nuance of doing so convincingly makes this a form of a
sophisticated bot attack.
Advertisers pay for their ads to be viewed by a human audience that are open to their products or
services. Instead, these fraudsters take the advertisers’ money and pocket it; the ads that are
“served” either never see the light of day or are never viewed by a human. An audience of
sophisticated bots is really just an empty audience.