76.8 mln
is the amount of total visits
to dangerous resources in March
As they are highly popular, pirate sites (streaming services, torrent trackers, etc.) are convenient platforms for distributing malware and stealing users’ money and personal data. These sites
can be both sources of threats (if their administrators are threat
actors) and targets for other threat actors.
During the pandemic, Group-IB screened over 3,100 pirated content websites for viruses, vulnerabilities, and inclusion in blacklists
compiled by antivirus software providers and search engines.
The resources were divided into three risk categories:
2.
Relatively safe websites
No threats were detected on these
websites. However, analysis revealed
various vulnerabilities that could potentially be used for unlawful activities.
Such vulnerabilities are most often the
result of outdated or hacked software
(e.g. CMS [8] ).
3.
Dangerous websites
These are websites where various
threats (including malware) were
detected or websites that have been
included in blacklists compiled by antivirus software providers and search
engines.
Analysis revealed that up to 23% of pirate resources posed risks
to users. Moreover, total visits to dangerous resources in March
amounted to 76.8 million.
Distribution by category:
6%
8  Content Management System
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Introduction to video piracy 12
Most pirate resources use outdated or hacked software as well
as custom-made parts of code, all of which can contain vulnerabilities. The two main reasons for this are a desire to save on the
costs of creating and operating a website and the fact that some
administrators have poor technical skills.
.RU 24%
.NET 11.1%
.ONLINE 7.2%
.COM 6.7%
.ORG 5.7%
.SITE 4.2%
.XYZ 4.0%
.TOP 3.1%
.CLUB 3.1%
.INFO 3.1%
.ME 2.6%
.CC 2.6%
.FUN 1.8%
.SU 1.6%
.PW 1.5%
.BIZ 1.5%
.PRO 1.3%
.TV 1.1%
.CO 0.9%
.ML 0.8%
OTHERS 12.1%
The fact that most dangerous resources are in the .RU domain
also supports this claim. Experienced webmasters tend
to use overseas domains, including offshore ones, to host their
resources. Registering a pirate resource in the .RU domain is easier
for beginners, although it does involve legal risks. At the same time,
these webmasters do not always have the necessary technical
knowledge and tools to ensure that their resources are safe.
Distribution of dangerous
resources by type:
2%
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Introduction to video piracy 13