Conclusion and Security Recommendations
If our previous reports on Pawn Storm is any indication, the threat actor group has plenty of resources
that allow them to run lengthy campaigns, determined in the pursuit of their targets. Their attacks, which
range from compromising DNS settings and tabnabbing [4] to creating watering holes and taking advantage
of zero-days, [5] have been nothing short of sophisticated. And as evidenced by their recent activities, we
expect even more direct attacks against webmail and cloud services that don’t rely on malware.
We have seen Pawn Storm’s activities since 2004, and we expect the threat actor group to be active for
years to come. Since Pawn Storm uses a wide range of tools and tactics, organizations must secure their
perimeter to reduce the risks from any potential entry or jump-off points. Here are some measures users
and organizations can take to defend against Pawn Storm’s methods:

Enforce the principle of least privilege. Minimize risks in the network by limiting traffic, enabling

only the services needed, and disabling those that are outdated or unused.

Mind the security gaps. Keep the system updated and its applications patched, create strong patch

management policies, and consider virtual patching [6] for known and unknown vulnerabilities.

Regularly monitor the infrastructure. Aside from employing firewalls, incorporate intrusion detection

and prevention systems that inspect traffic in real-time and automatically remediate vulnerable
systems. [7]

Require two-factor authentication. Corporate email accounts, network access, and outsourced

services should have multiple authentication measures when used.

Educate employees. Raise awareness of phishing techniques and common attack vectors and

prohibit the use of personal webmail and social media accounts for work purposes.

Maintain data integrity. Regularly back up data and encrypt stored sensitive information.

12 | Pawn Storm in 2019: A Year of Scanning and Credential Phishing on High-Profile Targets