Introduction
In July 2020, we released a study of targeted attacks on state institutions in Kazakhstan and
Kyrgyzstan with a detailed analysis of malware found in compromised networks. During the
investigation, Doctor Web specialists analyzed and described several groups of trojan programs,
including new samples of trojan families already encountered by our virus analysts, as well as
previously unknown trojans. The most notable discovery was the samples of the XPath family.
We were also able to find evidence that allowed us to link two initially independent incidents. In
both cases, the attackers used a similar selection of malware, including the same specialized
backdoors that infected domain controllers in the attacked organizations.
During the examination, analysts studied samples of PlugX multi-module backdoors used for
initial penetration into the network infrastructure. The analysis showed that certain PlugX
modifications used the same domain names of C&C servers, as did other backdoors related to
targeted attacks on Central Asian state institutions. The detection of the PlugX programs
indicates Chinese APT groups are possibly involved in these incidents.
According to our data, the unauthorized presence in both networks lasted for more than three
years, and several hacker groups could be behind the attacks. Investigations of such complex
cyber incidents involve long-term work, so they are rarely covered by a single article.
The Doctor Web virus laboratory received new samples of malware found on the infected
computers in the local network of a state institution in Kyrgyzstan.
In addition to the malware described in the previous article, the ShadowPad backdoor deserves
particular attention. Various modifications of this malware family are a well-known tool of the
Winnti APT group, presumably of Chinese origin, active since at least 2012. It is noteworthy that
the Farfli backdoor was also installed on computer along with ShadowPad, and both programs
referred to the same C&C server. Additionally, we uncovered several PlugX modifications on the
same computer.
In this study we analyzed the algorithms of the detected backdoors. Special attention is paid to
the code similarities between the ShadowPad and PlugX samples, as well as to some
intersections in their network infrastructure.