1. Details
The tools, and scripts that the NSA used to detect other third parties (governmental actors)
on the target computers are very simple tools. They check for the existence of specific files,
windows registry entries, and other signs that could show the existence of external attacker
(targeted, state backed actors) presence on the actual computers. These checks are
considered in the term of the security community as IoC, Indicator of Compromise.
4
For an APT attack we can generally define IoCs in the number of tens or hundreds, but NSA
tools generally contained only very few IoCs, around 1-5, which is strange. Why do they trust
information from such closed set of indicators and not broaden it with multiple checks? In
general, if we find a piece of malware and want to hunt for similar ones, we try to define 5-10
or even more different specific features, signatures to detect similar attacks. Then it can be
set, that the search tool should only mark something important if 6 of 10 signs are found in
the sample. The same could stand for an infected computer: One single registry key or
existence of a single file named something common like “ipfilter.dll” might not be a good idea
to make a detection based on it. But still, as we mentioned, the detection IoCs are very limited
in number.
One trivial answer is that while they had probably more information, and ideas for detection,
they utilized the process in a way to give as little information as possible to the operators. The
operators of the leaked tools can check the source code and hence they can examine the IoCs
inside. So, operators have a chance to find clues about the attacks. But once an operator could
pinpoint that SIG8 is an attack against the nuclear program of Iran, who and how should
inform him to keep it secret? It is a good idea to avoid such findings by limitation of the
available information, and reduce IoCs in the tool to as few as possible. Still, it is a question
why Stuxnet was enlisted as external attack (if the SIGs refer only targeted attacks by external
parties), if possibly NSA also contributed to it? It is possible that Stuxnet attack was so hidden,
that only very few at NSA knew about that and they really mis-attributed their own attack
thinking belonging to external parties, hence it is part of the list, which list consists of attacks
from external parties.
The naming convention for the findings also reflect this fact. All these detections are referred
to as SIGX, where X stands for 1 to 45. Operators should not know about operation names,
they should handle the situation according to the plan.
As mentioned already, the “detection engine”, the IoC scanning tools are very simplistic, they
are looking for only a very few number of indicators, and it is not impossible, that they detect
some infections of external adversaries, but they cannot detect others. It is a very strange
decision, but maybe within the organization they already made a risk analysis and it showed
that there is a risk that external party could stole, use, or leak this information. The attackers
maybe though it was a good idea to limit the presence of IoCs in their tools to lower this risk.