Notable Activity
Web Compromise (SWC) or drive-by operations. There were two primary
campaigns associated with CVE-2014-0322.
The first to be publicly identified occurred in February 2014 and was hosted
on the website of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). This incident
delivered a fairly common, publicly available RAT called ZxShell, which
connected to a C2 at newss.effers.com. This is a domain that CrowdStrike
associates with the AURORA PANDA adversary.
Investigation into the VFW incident led to the discovery of other sites
(savmpet.com, gifas.assso.net, and icbcqsz.com) also hosting this exploit
code. These sites not only shared the same IP address as each other, but also
contained the same content that was taken from the website for the French
aerospace industries association, Groupement des Industries Françaises
Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS). The dates visible on these webpages
and those dates found in the pages’ source code indicated that they were
created on 17 January 2014, which predated the VFW incident by nearly a
month. However, this operation utilized drive-by tactics rather than SWC
because the sites hosting the code were controlled by the adversary and not
compromised legitimate sites.
The GIFAS-related activity delivered a different malware payload (Sakula)
than the VFW incident (ZxShell). The Sakula payload communicated with
an entirely different C2 infrastructure than the ZxShell, oa.ameteksen.com.
This indicates that a different adversary was responsible for the GIFAS
related SWC operation. Further investigation into this activity showed a
number of similarities to a 2012 zero-day (CVE-2012-4792) SWC campaign
that leveraged the website of a U.S.-based manufacturer, Capstone Turbine.
These similarities were: the use of Sakula malware, GIFAS-based subdomains
related to both incidents, and the use of zero-day vulnerabilities. At the end
of 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence also discovered potential links between this
adversary and its HURRICANE PANDA adversary (discussed in more detail
below); however, evaluation of these connections is still ongoing.
CVE-2014-4113 – Local Privilege Escalation
Every now and then, an adversary reveals their trump card when they
35