Overview
In an effort to advance the practice of security testing through adversary emulation and
adversarial engineering, we present this emulation plan to be used by an adversary emulation
team looking to emulate the threat group commonly known as APT3. The plan includes the
group’s commonly known behavior through the tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) that
have been documented in publicly available threat reporting. To ground the plan in a common
taxonomy, it is based on the MITRE ATT&CK model [1] . The scope of this emulation plan covers
the adversary lifecycle, beginning with initial network compromise and ending with exfiltration.
It discusses tools, methods, style, tradecraft, and end state objectives. Historically, information
about attackers’ on-target actions and goals have been difficult to obtain and APT3 reporting is
no exception; however, the document bases instructions off publicly accessible sources whenever
possible, focusing on sources that could be cross-referenced to some degree. To fill the intel
gaps, the authors relied on their experience in threat intelligence and adversary emulation for
best-estimates.
Threat reporting sources vary widely, and correlation of activity to a threat group is not
straightforward, and as such the authors have worked to ensure reputable sources are referenced.
While many threat intelligence sources work to provide information that is as accurate as
possible to the community, there is still an inherent risk that third-party threat reporting may
provide inaccurate information.
Note: Within this document, italicized text represents notes. These notes represent comments that
are not supported by evidence but represent the author’s opinion. For example, they discuss
concessions that have been made to make the emulation instructions practical or to indicate
where inconsistent or nonexistent reporting has required gaps to be filled in with best-guess
estimates of adversary behavior.
References are indicated in-line with bracketed numbers [#] and listed at the end of this
document.