Persistence mechanisms
Based on its version, Ramsay implements various persistence mechanisms of different complexity. Some
of these persistence mechanisms are the following:
AppInit DLL registry key
The Windows operating system provides the functionality to allow custom DLLs to be loaded into the
address space of almost all application processes via AppInit DLL registry key. This technique is not
particularly complex; it is implemented in early Ramsay versions and is common in other malware
families.
Scheduled Task via COM API
Scheduled tasks enable administrators to run tasks or “jobs” at designated times rather than every time
the system is booted or the user logs in. This feature can be implemented via the Windows COM API,
which the first versions of Ramsay have tailored. Based on the high ratio of similarity with Carberp’s
implementation, it’s highly probable that Ramsay’s implementation was adapted from Carberp’s publicly
available source code.
Phantom DLL Hijacking
More mature versions of Ramsay denote an increase in complexity of its persistence techniques, which
include a technique sometimes referred to as “Phantom DLL Hijacking”.
Phantom DLL Hijacking abuses the fact that many Windows applications use outdated dependencies not
strictly necessary for the functionality of the application itself, allowing the possibility of leveraging
malicious versions of these dependencies.
Two services will be targeted in order to enforce this technique. These are:
WSearch (Windows Search) hijacking msfte.dll:
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/05/13/ramsay-cyberespionage-toolkit-airgapped-networks/ 4/19
5/14/2020 Ramsay: A cyber ~~-~~ espionage toolkit tailored for air ~~-~~ gapped networks | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 4. Hijacking of Microsoft Search Service msfte.dll
MSDTC (Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator) service hijacking an oracle dependency
seen below as oci.dll:
Figure 5. Hijacking of MSDTC service dependency oci.dll
This persistence technique is highly versatile, enabling Ramsay agents delivered as DLLs to fragment
their logic into separated sections, implementing different functionality tailored for the subject processes
where the agent will be loaded. In addition, the use of this technique makes detection more difficult since
the loading of these DLLs into their respective processes/services won’t necessarily trigger an alert.