A and persevering in spite of uncertainty as we continue to navigate the
challenges of living through a global pandemic. While these issues will ultimately
lead to strength and innovation in organizations around the world, they will also
create new risks and vulnerabilities that can be exploited.
Cyber adversaries kept pace in 2021 with many adapting to a changing target
landscape. This trend was perhaps best exemplified by the shifts observed in
the 2021 eCrime ecosystem, which — while remaining vast and interconnected —
comprises many criminal enterprises that exist to support big game hunting (BGH)
ransomware operations. Notably, adversaries in 2021 were able to circumvent
actions that threatened cessation of their operations, and some even resorted
to rebranding as a result. Despite new approaches taken by law enforcement,
including attempts to seize ransom payments and criminal funds before they
reached adversaries’ hands, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed an 82% increase in
ransomware-related data leaks in 2021, compared to 2020. This increase, coupled
with other data leaks, is a stark reminder of the value that adversaries place on
victim data.
In 2021, targeted intrusion adversaries continued to adapt to the changing
operational opportunities and strategic requirements of technology and world
events. Russian, Chinese, Iranian and North Korean adversaries were all observed
employing new tradecraft or target-scopes meant to respond to global trends.
This included: Russia’s targeting of IT and cloud service providers to exploit
trusted relationships; China’s weaponization of vulnerabilities at scale to facilitate
initial access efforts; Iran’s use of ransomware to blend disruptive operations with
authentic eCrime activity; and Democratic People's Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) shift
to cryptocurrency-related entities in an effort to maintain illicit revenue generation
during economic disruptions caused by the pandemic.
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 6
21
Newly named aversaries
45%
Increase in interactive
intrusion campaigns
170+
Total adversaries tracked
82%
Increase in ransomware
related data leaks
Governments are also adapting. This year, CrowdStrike Intelligence debuted two
new adversary animals — WOLF and OCELOT — to label targeted intrusions
emanating from Turkey and Colombia, respectively. The presence of these
new adversaries underscores the increase in offensive capabilities outside of
governments traditionally associated with cyber operations, and highlights the
variety of actor end goals. Private sector offensive actors (PSOAs), such as NSO
Group and Candiru, continued to serve as hackers-for-hire throughout 2021,
providing governments with substitute or supplemental capabilities and further
enlarging the global actor space.
In the hacktivist landscape, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed the continued
development of grassroots operations and a proliferation of established hacktivist
groups across the world. The rise of Belarusian group Cyber Partisans since
late 2020, the expanded role and diversification of the broader Iranian hacktivist
ecosystem, and the growing participation of various hacktivists in response to
Western political developments all exemplify this trend.
As our adversaries adapt, so do we. CrowdStrike Intelligence offered an unparalleled
level of coverage throughout 2021, adding 21 named adversaries and raising the
total of tracked actors across all motivations to over 170. CrowdStrike Intelligence
continues to expand coverage of threat landscapes beyond targeted intrusion,
eCrime and hacktivist mission areas; in 2021, we increased support for vulnerability
intelligence and mobile intelligence across all our products.
In 2021, CrowdStrike launched Falcon X Recon+ as a companion service for Falcon
X Recon™. Falcon X Recon+ analysts manage monitoring, triaging, assessing
and mitigating threats across the criminal underground. They also assess and
recommend effective mitigation steps, helping customers act decisively and
proactively to prevent and detect future attacks. CrowdStrike's Falcon X Elite
service was also expanded in 2021 to provide a single point of contact for
onboarding, product integration, intelligence clarification, personalized threat
briefing and intelligence research. Falcon X Elite analysts continue to provide
proactive notifications of threats to CrowdStrike customer organizations.
The CrowdStrike 2022 Global Threat Report summarizes the entirety of analysis
performed by the CrowdStrike Intelligence team throughout 2021, including
descriptions of notable themes, trends and significant events in cybersecurity. This
analysis, combined with case studies from the Falcon OverWatch™ managed threat
hunting team, demonstrates how threat intelligence and proactive hunting can
provide a deeper understanding of the motives, objectives and activities of these
actors — information that can empower swift proactive countermeasures to better
defend your valuable data now and in the future.
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 7
Naming Conventions
This report follows the naming conventions instituted by CrowdStrike to categorize
adversaries according to their nation-state affiliations or motivations. The following
is a guide to these adversary naming conventions.
|Adversary|Nation-state or Category|
|---|---|
|BEAR|RUSSIA|
|BUFFALO|VIETNAM|
|CHOLLIMA|DPRK (NORTH KOREA)|
|CRANE|ROK (REPUBLIC OF KOREA)|
|JACKAL|HACKTIVIST|
|KITTEN|IRAN|
|LEOPARD|PAKISTAN|
|LYNX|GEORGIA|
|OCELOT|COLOMBIA|
|PANDA|PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA|
|SPIDER|ECRIME|
|TIGER|INDIA|
|WOLF|TURKEY|
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 8
Threat Landscape
Overview
eCrime Breakout Time
1 hour 38 minutes
Today’s eCrime adversaries move with speed and
purpose in pursuit of their objectives.
The CrowdStrike Falcon OverWatch team measures
breakout time — the time an adversary takes to move
laterally from an initially compromised host to another host
within the victim environment. Our analysis of the breakout
time for hands-on eCrime intrusion activity in 2021 — where
such a metric could be derived — revealed an average of
just 1 hour 38 minutes.
This number is essentially unchanged from what was
reported by CrowdStrike’s Falcon OverWatch team in the
CrowdStrike 2021 Threat Hunting Report, when breakout
time for eCrime actors was measured at 1 hour 32 minutes.
eCrime adversaries continue to show a high degree of
sophistication as evidenced by the speed at which they can
move through a victim environment, leaving a very short
window for defenders to respond.
Adversary Tactics
Detections indexed by the CrowdStrike Security Cloud in Q4 2021
Adversaries continue to show
that they have moved beyond malware .
Attackers are increasingly attempting to accomplish
their objectives without writing malware to the
endpoint. Rather, they have been observed using
legitimate credentials and built-in tools — an
approach known as “living off the land” (LOTL) — in
a deliberate effort to evade detection by legacy
antivirus products. Of all detections indexed by the
CrowdStrike Security Cloud in the fourth quarter of
2021, 62% were malware-free.
Malware-Free Malware
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 9
In 2021, OverWatch tracked steadily increasing numbers of interactive intrusion
campaigns. Compared to 2020, OverWatch observed a near 45% increase in the
number of such campaigns, and uncovered more in the fourth quarter than in any
other quarter.
Interactive Intrusion Activity Over Time
eCrime Targeted Hacktivist Unattributed
Figure 1. Quarterly Growth in Interactive Intrusion Campaigns by Threat Type, Q1 2020
to Q4 2021
|Types of Threat Activity|Col2|
|---|---|
|eCrime|Financially motivated criminal intrusion activity|
|Targeted|State-sponsored intrusion activity that includes cyberespionage, state-nexus destruction attacks and generatingcurrency to support a regime|
|Hacktivist|Intrusion activity undertaken to gain momentum, visibilityor publicity for a cause or ideology|
|Unattributed|Insufcient data were available to make a confdentattribution|
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 10
Financially motivated eCrime activity continues to dominate the interactive intrusion
attempts tracked by OverWatch. Intrusions attributed to eCrime accounted for
nearly half (49%) of the observed activity, while targeted intrusions accounted for
18%, hacktivist activity was responsible for 1% and the remaining 32% of attacks
remain unattributed. The distribution of these figures is similar to that of 2020.
Interactive Intrusion Campaigns by Threat Type
2020 vs. 2021
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 11