Emails and Lures
MuddyWater campaigns usually consist of sending large numbers of emails to a wide range of targets from a
compromised email account. Although their lures are aimed at a large and varied set of organizations or individuals, they
often focus on specific industries or sectors, highlighting the group’s points of interest. Among those are notable phishing
campaigns aimed at Israeli municipalities as well as a broader group of airlines, travel agencies, and journalists. Overall,
since February 2024 we identified over 50 spear phishing emails targeting more than 10 sectors that were sent to
hundreds of recipients.
i
Figure 1 – Notable phishing campaigns.
In each of these campaigns, the actors used a tailored lure that was sent to dozens of targets in the same sector. For
example, lures aimed at municipalities contained a suggestion to download a new app created just for municipalities:
Figure 2 – Lure email sent to municipalities in Israel.
Translated email:
Subject: Special Offer: New App for Municipalities – Limited Time Only!
Dear Customer, in celebration of International Mother’s Day, we are excited to announce the
launch of our latest municipal app. This innovative tool is meticulously designed to automate
tasks, enhance efficiency, and ensure maximum safety in operations.
For today only, we are offering this app as a free download. Empower your municipality to
streamline workflows and securely prepare for future tasks. Download Now
Take advantage of this opportunity to revolutionize your municipality’s operations with our
innovative solution. Don’t miss out!
Best regards, [Redacted]
In more recent campaigns, the group shifted to more generic-themed, yet well-crafted phishing lures, such as invitations
to webinars and online courses. This approach allows them to reuse the same lure across different targets and regions.
Additionally, while they primarily used the locally spoken languages of their targets, they now use the English language
more frequently.
This shift is exemplified in two different emails that use the same exact lure: one sent to targets in Saudi Arabia and the
other to Israel. The main differences were the email addresses used to send them, and the final payload. In Saudi Arabia it
was an RMM, and in Israel, the custom backdoor BugSleep.
Comparison of two emails about online courses using the same lure:
A compromised email
Israeli company.
Email contains a PDF
an embedded link.
|Characteristics of email|Version 1|
|---|---|
|From|A compromised email account of aSaudi Arabian company.|
|To|Companies in Saudi Arabia.|
|Link|Email includes a direct link to anEgnyte subdomain.|
|Characteristics of email|Version 1|
|---|---|
|Payload|Atera RMM tool.|
Figure 3 – Email comparison (version 1 on the top).
The only differences in the content between the two emails are the company name and the last two lines with the link that
can be found in the PDF attachment.
Figure 4 – PDF attachment of email version 2.
Attribution of these campaigns to MuddyWater is supported by the distinct patterns of behavior and RMM tools they
employ, which have been consistently observed in their operations over the past few years.