6
Abusing Network Infrastructure
The Darkhotel actor maintained an effective intrusion set at hotel networks,
providing ample access to unexpected points of attack over several years. These
staging points also provide the attackers with access to check-in/check-out and
identity information of visitors to high-end and luxury hotels.
As a part of an ongoing investigation, our research led us to embedded iframes
within hotel networks that redirected individuals’ web browsers to phony installers. The attackers were very careful with the placement of these iframes and
executables on trusted resources - the hotels’ network login portals themselves.
The attackers were also very careful to immediately delete all traces of their
tools as soon as an attack was carried out successfully. Those portals are now
reviewed, cleaned and undergoing a further review and hardening process. We
observed traces of a couple of these incidents in late 2013 and early 2014 on
a victim hotel’s network. The attackers set up the environment and hit their
individual targets with precision. As soon as their target’s stay was over and
the attack-frame was closed, the attackers deleted their iframe placement and
backdoored executables from the hotel network. The attackers successfully deleted traces of their work from earlier attacks in another hotel, but their offensive
techniques were the same. Outside reports of the same activity at other hotels
provide enough data to confirm the same careful operations there.
The attack technique blurs the line between a couple of common APT tactics;
fairly inaccurate “watering holes” or “strategic web compromises” and more
accurate spearphishing techniques. In this case, the Darkhotel attackers wait
for their victim to connect to the Internet over the hotel Wi-Fi or the cable in their
room. There is a very strong likelihood the targets will connect over these resources, and the attackers rely on that likelihood, much like at a watering hole. But the
attackers also maintain truly precise targeting information over the victim’s visit,
much like they would know a victim’s email address and content interests in a
spearphishing attack. While setting up the attack, the Darkhotel attackers knew
the target’s expected arrival and departure times, room number, and full name,
among other data. This data enables the attackers to present the malicious
iframe precisely to that individual target. So, here we have yet another unique
characteristic of this attacker - they employ a loosely certain but highly precise
offensive approach.
TLP: Green For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com