4.1 Strategic recommendations
In order to deliver a significant and sustainable
change in the exposure to cybersecurity risk, four
areas of strategic focus are required across the HSE
and other parties connected to the NHN:
• Governance of IT and cybersecurity;
• Leadership and transformation of the IT
foundation on which provision of health services
depends;
• Leadership and transformation of cybersecurity
capability; and
• Development of clinical and services continuity
and crisis management capability to encompass
‘service-wide’ events such as prolonged total
outage of IT.
There are dependencies across these four areas
and they need to be progressed in parallel. They are
described in the strategic recommendations below,
with further supporting recommendations provided
in Section 5 of this report.
1. Implement an enhanced governance
structure over IT and cybersecurity
that will provide appropriate focus,
attention and oversight.
1.1 Establish clear responsibilities for IT and
cybersecurity across all parties that connect to
the NHN, share health data or access shared
health services. Establish a ‘code of connection’
that sets minimum cybersecurity requirements
for all parties and develop an assurance
mechanism to ensure adherence.
One of the challenges faced by the HSE is that
cybersecurity risk materialises as a ‘common risk’
to all organisations connected to the NHN given
the interconnected nature of the IT systems. This
has resulted from the direction of digital healthcare
demanding greater interconnectivity, ability to share
information and access to common services. Under
the governance constructs of the health service,
organisations have varying levels of autonomy over
IT and cybersecurity decision making, yet the risk is
shared - with organisations dependent on each other
for cybersecurity. There is no ‘code of connection’
for all parties that connect to the NHN, share
health data or use shared services in order to set a
minimum baseline of security standards. The HSE’s
IT Security Policy was written in 2013, with the last
update in 2014, and does not reflect the controls and
capabilities required to manage cyber risk in 2021.
In order to manage the ‘common risks’ effectively,
clarity is required over responsibilities and decision
rights of all parties. In addition, the HSE must be able
to set minimum standards for IT and cybersecurity,
and ensure compliance to those standards by all
organisations connected to the NHN. These minimum
standards are required in order to ensure there is
confidence in all organisations connected to the
NHN that they are not themselves exposed due to
inadequate cybersecurity controls in an organisation
that they are connected to.
34 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
1.2 Establish an executive level cybersecurity
oversight committee to drive continuous
assessment of cybersecurity risk and a
cybersecurity transformation programme across
the provision of health services.
The HSE has initiated a number of tactical
improvements post the Incident to better secure
systems as they have been recovered. However,
this will not lead to the level of cyber risk reduction
required to significantly and sustainably reduce the
risk of further ransomware (or other) attacks.
Within the HSE, there is no dedicated executive
oversight committee that provides direction and
oversight to cybersecurity, both within the HSE and
all organisations connected to the NHN. A known
low level of cyber security maturity, including critical
issues with cybersecurity capability, has persisted
for years with little progress. An Information Security
Project Board ceased operating in 2013.
A challenge faced in ensuring cybersecurity of
health systems is balancing the need for ease-ofuse, especially for clinical staff, with cybersecurity
imperatives. For example, implementation of
increased levels of cybersecurity controls such as
‘Multi Factor Authentication’ will have an impact on
working procedures. It is therefore important that
the cybersecurity oversight committee includes
participation from user groups, so that culturally
cybersecurity moves from being perceived as an IT
challenge, to being perceived as ‘how we work’.
Finally, the cybersecurity oversight committee should
be accountable for ensuring compliance with the
evolving requirements of the EU NISD for essential
services across the health service.
1.3 Establish an executive level oversight
committee for IT.
With a fragmented set of decision rights over IT
development and support across the provision of
health services, a necessary enabler for driving
transformational change will be the establishment
of an executive level committee that can agree the
priorities for IT development and investment, and
align all interested parties behind a clear vision,
strategy and plan.
This committee should be chaired by the Chief
Technology & Transformation Officer (see
Recommendation 2 below) and drive reporting on
all aspects of IT hygiene (such as status of legacy
systems) as well as progress in implementation
of strategy. Critical to its success will be the
participation of IT leaders from across the health
service, in particular hospital groups, where a degree
of autonomy over IT decisions remains. It will also be
crucial in directing the evolution of an IT infrastructure
and service provision that aligns with the objectives
of Sláintecare, and establishment of appropriate
levels of resourcing.
1.4 Establish a board committee (or repurpose
an existing one) to oversee the transformation
of IT and cybersecurity to deliver a future-
fit, resilient technology base for provision of
digitally-enabled health services, and ensure
that IT and cybersecurity risks remain within
a defined risk appetite. Consider the inclusion
of further specialist non-executive members
of the committee in order to provide additional
expertise and insight to the committee.
Cybersecurity was recorded as a ‘High’ risk in the
Corporate Risk Register in Q1 2019. [80] At the time
of the Incident, the risk rating for cybersecurity on
the Corporate Risk Register was 16, based on a
likelihood scoring of 4 (likely, with a 75% probability)
and an impact scoring of ‘Major’. [81] The HSE’s risk
assessment tool is described in Appendix H.
Risks on the Register are subject to a quarterly review
process and the quarterly reports are reviewed by
the relevant Board Committee. The Performance
and Delivery Committee of the Board reviewed the
cyber risk with management in September 2020 [82]
and this was followed by a revised mitigation
plan. The Committee includes two experienced IT
leaders in large organisations, although they are not
cybersecurity specialists. This revised mitigation plan
had a number of actions due to be completed post
the date of the Incident. The actions completed prior
to the Incident did not materially impact the risk faced
in this area.
The HSE’s IT-related risks had been presented at
Board level on a number of occasions. However,
the gravity of cybersecurity exposure was not fully
articulated to the Board, given the HSE’s level
of vulnerability to a cyber attack, or assessed
against a defined risk appetite. Known issues with
cybersecurity capability have made limited progress
over the course of several years.
Other organisations with a critical cybersecurity
exposure, and a need to drive significant technology
transformation have found a dedicated committee of
the board beneficial in order to raise the priority and
focus to an appropriate level and ensure risks are
appropriately communicated and understood.
80 Q1, 2019 CRR COMBINED Document for April LT
meeting.pdf
81 CRR Q4 2020 Full Report post EMT meeting February
2021 v0.1 09 02 21.pdf
82 Minutes-hse-performance-and-delivery-committee
18-september-2020.pdf
35 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Given the scale of change required across the
provision of health services, it is recommended that
a focused committee of the board is established,
with relevant training provided. Consideration
should be given to appointing additional individuals
to that committee with specialist skills to act in a
non-executive capacity and enhance the ability
for the committee to support and oversee the IT
and cybersecurity transformation. A key role for
the committee will be to ensure that HSE requests
for government funding (e.g. to DPER) to invest in
addressing IT and cybersecurity issues are clearly
articulated, and the risks associated with lack of
investment are communicated and understood.
2. Establish a transformational Chief
Technology & Transformation Officer
(CTTO) and office to create a vision
and architecture for a resilient and
future-fit technology capability; to
lead the delivery of the significant
transformation programme that is
required, and to build the increased
function that will be necessary to
execute such a scale of IT change.
The national health service is operating on a
frail IT estate with an architecture that has
evolved rather than be designed for resilience
and security.
The NHN is primarily an unsegmented (or undivided)
network, and can be described as a “flat” network,
to make it easy for staff to access the IT applications
they require. However, this design exposes the HSE
to the risk of cyber attacks from other organisations
connected to the NHN, as well as exposing other
organisations to cyber attacks originating from the
HSE - since once an attacker has a presence on the
network they have ‘freedom to roam’. This network
architecture, coupled with a complex and unmapped
set of permissions for systems administrators to
access systems across the NHN, enabled the
Attacker to access a multitude of systems across
many organisations connected to the NHN and create
the large-scale impact that they did.
Part of the frailty of the IT estate is an over-reliance
over 30,000 outdated Windows 7 legacy systems
running on workstations. One reason cited for the
continued proliferation of Windows 7 systems is that
a key shared service for handling medical imaging,
NIMIS, is not supported by the manufacturer to
function on more modern Windows desktops
without being upgraded. The upgrade has not been
rolled out, despite Windows 7 being deemed ‘endof-life’ by Microsoft in January 2020, with many
organisations upgrading to Windows 10 several years
prior to that. Some hospitals have implemented an
unofficial workaround to enable NIMIS to operate on
Windows 10 machines, with potential implications
on the support and warranty arrangements for their
use of the application, and work to minimise the
dependency on Windows 7 is continuing.
The parts of the health service that were arguably
best-equipped to maintain clinical services in the face
of prolonged IT outages were those that rely on paper
records for patient services. Whilst this was a positive
feature in managing the Incident, it highlights the
extent to which modernisation is required across the
health service to enable the adoption of digital health
services. The relative disadvantage in this Incident for
organisations who are more dependent on technology
services illustrates the critical need for resiliency to
be built into the IT architecture and systems to foster
the confidence required to enable future migration to
more digital provision of health services.
Reducing cybersecurity risk requires both a
transformation in cybersecurity capability (see
recommendation 3) and IT transformation, to
address the issues of a legacy IT estate and build
cybersecurity and resilience into the IT architecture.
2.1 Appoint a permanent Chief Technology
& Transformation Officer with the mandate
and authority to develop and execute a
multi-year technology transformation, build
an appropriate level of IT resource for an
organisation the scale of the HSE and oversee
the running of technology services.
The HSE has operated since the end of 2018 with
an interim Chief Information Officer with a limited
practical mandate, authority and resource to effect
change across all organisations connected to the
NHN. The level of resourcing in critical IT functions
is significantly lower than we would expect for an
organisation with the size of IT estate that the HSE
has; the IT organisation consists of approximately
350 FTE, serving a population of over 70,000 enduser devices. This observation has been consistently
made in interviews, both within the HSE and from
external parties who interfaced with them during the
Incident, and was a known issue within HSE prior to
the Attack with an additional 300 FTE approved for
recruitment shortly before the Incident.
The lack of investment in IT resources over a
sustained period of time has clearly limited the ability
of the HSE to drive modernisation and maintain
36 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
the IT estate to be resilient and secure. In addition,
the scarce resource in critical IT functions resulted
in significant key-person dependencies during the
Incident management and recovery, which was
undoubtedly a contributing factor to the extended
length of the recovery process.
In interviews with hospitals and other providers,
it was observed that this incident has highlighted
the need to build greater IT resource within many
of those organisations, as well as at HSE centre,
including representation on leadership committees.
The CTTO should develop a resourcing plan for the
whole health service that will be sufficient to deliver a
transformational strategy, and maintain a resilient and
secure IT estate.
The CTTO should assume responsibility for all
capabilities that currently sit within the OoCIO,
as well as a broadened capability to drive rapid
transformation. The CTTO should be a member of the
EMT reporting to the CEO.
The ransomware incident has served to highlight the
extent to which the provision of health services is
dependent on an effective and resilient IT capability.
The opportunity needs to be seized to reflect this
increased understanding of the criticality of IT with
a repositioning of leadership, funding and level of
resource.
2.2 Under the office of the CTTO, develop an IT
strategy to achieve a secure, resilient and future-
fit IT architecture, required for the scale of the
HSE organisation.
In order to deliver the transformation required to the
technology foundation of the health service in Ireland,
a clear strategy is required that can be used to secure
commitment to execution across all organisations
involved in the provision of health services, and the
significant funding that will be required over many
years.
The HSE has had a plan for the development of IT
that has been used to secure funding for individual
projects. However it has not been tied to a vision,
strategy and architecture that is deliverable over
a period of years and that provides the necessary
level of resilience through investment in enabling IT
architecture and fallback solutions in the event of
core technology failure. Many interviewees expressed
frustration with an apparent approach of investing
in ‘new projects’ or ‘new features’ rather than the
holistic delivery and maintenance of a technology
foundation for health service provision.
The development of the IT strategy and target
architecture also needs to explicitly address the
architecture for deployment of medical devices.
Whilst not in scope for this review, it is apparent that
reliance is placed on medical device manufacturers
to specify how they should be deployed within
the overall IT architecture, with no HSE-mandated
approach to ensuring they could not be impacted by
a cyber attack.
A key requirement for the IT transformation plan that
will be critical to the ability to recover from a similar
incident in the future will be clear alignment between
critical clinical services and the IT applications and
infrastructure they depend on. The recovery activities
following the ransomware incident would have
benefited greatly from such a view, and speed of
decision-making and recovery increased.
3. Appoint a Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) and establish a suitably
resourced and skilled cybersecurity
function. Develop and drive the
implementation of a cybersecurity
transformation programme.
The HSE has a very low level of cybersecurity
maturity (Section 5.3 of this report gives an evaluation
of maturity against the industry standard ‘NIST’
cybersecurity framework). Examples of the lack of
cybersecurity controls in place at the time of the
Incident include:
• The IT environment did not have many of the
cybersecurity controls that are most effective
at detecting and preventing human-operated
ransomware attacks;
• There was no security monitoring capability
that was able to effectively detect, investigate
and respond to security alerts across HSE’s IT
environment or the wider NHN;
• There was a lack of comprehensive effective
patching (updates, bug fixes etc.) across the
IT estate of all organisations connected to the
NHN; and
• Reliance was placed on a single antivirus product
that was not monitored or effectively maintained
with updates across the estate. For example, the
workstation on which the Attacker gained their
initial foothold did not have antivirus signatures
updated for over a year.
The low level of cybersecurity maturity, combined
with the frailty of the IT estate, enabled the Attacker
in this incident to achieve their objectives with relative
ease. The Attacker was able to use well-known and
simple attack techniques to move around the NHN,
37 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
extract data and deploy ransomware software over
large parts of the estate, without detection.
3.1 Appoint a CISO and establish a suitably
resourced and skilled cybersecurity function.
The HSE has not had a single responsible owner
for cybersecurity at either senior executive or
management level, responsible for cybersecurity
leadership and direction. This is highly unusual for
an organisation of the HSE’s size and complexity
with reliance on technology for delivering critical
operations and handling large amounts of sensitive
data. As a consequence, there was no senior
cybersecurity specialist able to ensure recognition
of the risks that the organisation faced due to
its cybersecurity posture and the growing threat
environment.
The HSE lacked a detailed and holistic cybersecurity
strategy, operating model and transformation plan
that outlined the strategic, tactical and operational
activities required to mitigate known weaknesses and
reduce cyber risk exposure.
The CISO should be at National Director level, a
direct report to the CTTO, and have appropriate
access to the EMT and their agenda, to ensure that
cybersecurity risks are understood and considered in
all decision-making. They should be responsible for
cybersecurity operations as well as driving strategic
and tactical actions to transform cybersecurity
capability, and providing updates to the Board. Whilst
recruitment of a permanent CISO may take some
time, appointment of an interim CISO should be
considered in the short term.
The HSE also only had circa 15 FTE in cybersecurity
roles, and they did not possess the expertise and
experience to perform the tasks expected of them.
For example, alerts were generated by antivirus
software on key systems in the days leading up to the
attack, which were passed to the cybersecurity team.
However, there was insufficient expertise, and a lack
of expertly-designed triaging processes to appreciate
the significance of the alerts and take appropriately
urgent action to prevent the attack resulting in
significant disruption to systems. As a result,
opportunities to prevent the crisis were missed.
A critical requirement for the HSE to begin to develop
the ability to prevent and detect a similar incident in
the future is the appointment of senior cybersecurity
leadership and the development of a suitably skilled
and resourced cybersecurity function. These skilled
resources are currently scarce and the HSE may need
to consider co-sourcing arrangements to support
requirements in this area.
3.2 Develop and drive the execution of a multi-
year cybersecurity transformation programme
to deliver an acceptable level of cybersecurity
capability for a national health service.
It is apparent that significant capability and controls
need to be built and implemented across HSE and
other organisations involved in the provision of health
services, in order to achieve even a basic level of
protection against cyber attacks. This will need
to dovetail with the transformation of IT, but also
extend beyond IT into ‘the way people work’ (see
recommendation 1.2 above).
There will therefore need to be a multi-year
programme to transform cybersecurity capability in
a holistic way to ensure that the provision of health
services in Ireland, and the data that those health
services handle, becomes less vulnerable to cyber
attacks. Further detail as to a suggested structure of
the programme is given in Section 5.
4. Implement a clinical and services
continuity transformation programme
reporting to the National Director for
Governance and Risk and enhance
crisis management capabilities to
encompass events such as wide-impact
cyber attacks or large-scale loss of IT.
4.1 Implement a clinical and services continuity
transformation programme reporting to the
National Director for Governance and Risk.
Establish an Operational Resilience Policy
and Resilience Steering Committee to drive
integration between resilience-related disciplines,
and an overarching approach to resilience.
The HSE and associated organisations such as
hospitals, CHOs, and GPs have dealt with a number
of crises over recent years that have required
development of clinical and services continuity plans
and the ‘muscle memory’ that comes from repeatedly
managing incidents. Indeed one voluntary hospital
described the short-term outage of certain local IT
systems as a regular occurrence that their BusinessAs-Usual processes were designed to accommodate.
It is apparent that much of the planning for clinical
and services continuity (a more appropriate name for
the ‘business continuity’ discipline in the HSE) has
occurred at local level, for specific organisations,
and there has not been a programme to ensure
consistency of clinical and services continuity
planning across all health service organisations
and the HSE centre itself, and cross-sharing of
leading thinking.
38 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
In addition, as is the case with many other
organisations, the scenario of sustained loss of IT
across the entire health service has not been planned
for, with specific considerations and playbooks. As
a result, both within organisations and at the HSE
centre, great efforts were required ‘in the moment’
to manage the impacts of the ransomware attack
on clinical services, implement workarounds and
manage patient risk. The success of these efforts was
significantly due to the personal commitment, energy
and ingenuity of individuals across all organisations,
with no plans or playbooks for such an event that
could be relied upon.
A particular challenge faced during the recovery
process was the identification and prioritisation of
critical systems for recovery. Processes were rapidly
developed during the days and weeks following the
Incident, to identify the most critical health services
for recovery and to map them back to IT systems
and infrastructure. However, the understanding and
map of the dependencies between specific clinical
services and IT systems had not been developed
prior to the Incident. Development of this dependency
map is a critical requirement for clinical and services
continuity planning for future similar events.
During the recovery process in the days following
the ransomware attack it became apparent that
disaster recovery (DR) arrangements for IT systems
were ad hoc and inconsistent. With the Attacker
able to corrupt some primary data stores for disaster
recovery, there was a requirement to identify
secondary stores and attempt to recover from them.
A workstream was initiated to attempt to locate them
and test the viability of recovery. Were systems to
have been recovered using this method, they would
have been recovered to different points in time
that backups were available for, and there was no
confidence in the completeness (or in some cases
tested viability) of recovery solutions. As a result,
when the decryption key became available from
the Attacker, the decision was made to abandon
work to recover from backups, and instead recover
systems from their production environment, using
the decryption capability provided by the Attacker. It
cannot be confidently asserted that all health services
would have been able to recover in a timely manner
(or even at all) without the provision of the decryption
key by the Attacker.
The HSE has recognised that clinical and services
continuity as a risk discipline has not developed
at the pace needed with executive oversight
and focus. A National Director for Governance
and Risk (equivalent to a Chief Risk Officer) has
been appointed, and assigned responsibility for
establishing a clinical and services continuity
framework, through which risk management and
continuity plans will be reviewed, maintained and
validated. Responsibility for clinical and service
continuity under the HSE’s accountability structure
will remain with operational and functional managers.
A programme and resource is required to develop
the consistency and breadth of planning across
the health service, including establishing clear
requirements for disaster recovery capability to be
implemented by the IT transformation programme,
and the mapping of clinical processes to IT systems
and data.
In addition, the HSE should establish an Operational
Resilience Policy and Steering Committee to
drive integration between resilience-related
disciplines across the organisation, such as incident
management, crisis management, clinical and
services continuity and enterprise risk management
plus disciplines that can impact on resilience such as
cybersecurity and physical security.
4.2 Enhance crisis management capabilities to
encompass events such as wide-impact cyber
attacks or large-scale loss of IT.
It is indisputable that the HSE has extensive
experience in managing crises, for example in the
critical role it has fulfilled for the nation in navigating
the COVID-19 crisis. This has resulted in some
effective mechanisms for crisis management not
just being designed, but regularly used. In addition,
significant effort has been expended in planning for
large-scale external events that the health service
will be required to manage such as a plane crash
or security incident in a city. Mechanisms that have
been developed from previous crises served well
in managing this crisis - of particular note was the
effectiveness of communications out to the general
public and media.
However, the nature of the crisis resulting from
the ransomware attack was different, and required
elements of capability that have not previously been
required. For example: communicating with all staff
in the health service without internal emails or other
IT collaboration tools; establishing a wide variety
of communication channels and forums to gather
information and feedback to prioritise recovery of
systems, and issuing clear guidance to all parties
impacted by the Incident that was relevant to their
localised situation. Even establishing a coherent set
of facts from which to build communications to the
public proved to be challenging, as is typical in
a ransomware recovery situation.
The establishment of a crisis management centre
and working group, initially in a third party
organisation’s offices and subsequently in City West,
were examples of crisis management structures that
had to be developed ‘in-the-moment’ rather than
39 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
being pre-planned. Support from the Defence Forces
and other parties enabled an effective structure and
set of information flows to be developed rapidly, but
this evolved over several days and critical time was
lost in the recovery process as a result.
The nature of a ransomware attack, resulting in
effectively total loss of IT, makes it particularly
challenging to manage with a unique set of issues
to be navigated. Investment is required in crisis
management planning, resourcing tools and
processes in the HSE and associated organisations
in order to be prepared to manage this kind of
crisis in the future.