2. REPORT SUMMARY
This report shares actionable threat intelligence and proven threat hunting
and incident response methods used by the RSA Incident Response (IR) Team
to successfully respond to an intrusion in early-to-mid 2017 by the threat
actor group known as CARBANAK [1], also known as FIN7. The methodology
discussed in this report is designed, and has been tested, to be effective
on several currently available security technologies. While the majority of
examples shown in this document use the RSA NetWitness [®] Suite in their
illustrations, the methodology, query logic, and behavioral indicators discussed
can be used effectively with any security product providing the necessary
visibility. The intrusion and response described in this paper highlight
key behavioral tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) unique to this
engagement, giving significant insight into the thought processes, preparation,
and adaptive nature of actors within the CARBANAK threat actor group. This
paper also illustrates the RSA Incident Response Team’s Incident Response
and Threat Hunting Methodology: an unorthodox, adaptive and highly
effective methodology used to successfully detect, investigate, scope, track,
contain, and ultimately expel these and many other advanced adversaries.
Several intrusions associated with the CARBANAK actors have been reported
within the last year, describing compromises of organizations within banking [2],
financial [3], hospitality [4], and restaurant verticals. However, they all describe a
relatively equivalent progression, with only slight deviation in specific attacker
actions. The intelligence surrounding recent CARBANAK incidents indicate that
phishing attacks have been the group’s primary method of initial compromise.
After gaining access to a user system, the attackers move laterally throughout
the environment, conduct internal reconnaissance, establish staging points and
internal network paths, harvest credentials, and move towards their intended
target. However, this intrusion began with a significantly higher level of privilege
due to the exploitation of the Apache Struts vulnerability CVE-2017-5638 that
allowed the attackers to quickly gain administrative access within the client’s
Linux environment. The intrusion outlined in this report discusses a case that
presented substantial challenges due to:
[1 ] Krebs; “Krebs on Security – Posts Tagged: Carbanak”; https://krebsonsecurity.com/tag/carbanak/
2 Schwartz; “Sophisticated Carbanak Banking Malware Returns, With Upgrades”;
https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/sophisticated-carbanak-banking-malware-returns-
upgrades-a-8523
3 Krebs; “Payments Giant Verifone Investigating Breach”;
https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/03/payments-giant-verifone-investigating-breach/
4 Krebs; “Hyatt Hotels Suffers 2 nd Card Breach in 2 Years”;
https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/10/hyatt-hotels-suffers-2nd-card-breach-in-2-years/
5 Miller, Nuce, Vengerik; “FIN7 Spear Phishing Campaign Targets Personnel Involved in SEC Filings”;
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/03/fin7_spear_phishing.html
3
WHITE PAPER


The initial intrusion vector


Unique attacker toolset


The attacker dwell time


The large, heterogeneous environment


The speed with which the attackers gained administrative access


The forensic mindfulness of the CARBANAK attackers


The toolset utilized by the attackers was a mix of custom tools, freely
available code, and open source software utilities. RSA IR researched all 32 of
the malicious files in the CARBANAK toolset using various publicly available
and open source resources. Six of the tools used in this intrusion were found
to have been uploaded to a publicly available antivirus aggregation site. Of
these six, five of them have little to no detection or indication of malice from
antivirus vendors. This observation explains the reason that the client’s
signature-based host protection mechanisms were unable to identify or
prevent the use of these tools.
Figure 1: Findings from Public and Open Source Research of Toolset Reference
While the attackers used more than 30 unique samples of malware and tools,
they also demonstrated a normalization across Windows and Linux with
respect to their toolset. The toolsets they deployed can be broken down into
five basic functionalities:


Ingress/Egress/Remote Access


Lateral Movement


Log Cleanup


Credential Harvesting


Internal Reconnaissance


4
WHITE PAPER
In addition to following this distinct functionality in their toolsets, they
normalized functions across different operating system environments in the
forms of the two versions of AUDITUNNEL, PSCAN, and the use of WINEXE
(Linux) and TINYP (Windows). This normalization of tools is discussed in more
detail later in this paper, but it identifies that not only do CARBANAK actors
have the capability to successfully compromise various operating system
environments, they have actually standardized and operationalized this
capability. This attribute indicates strategic operational thought and effort
being invested in this group’s compromises, suggesting that the CARBANAK
actors are working towards becoming a more organized, structured,
resourceful and mature threat group.
During an intrusion, time is the single most critical resource to an
organization’s security team and is the most significant indicator of
determining if the security team will be successful in containing, eradicating
and remediating the extant threat. There are two specific sets of time related
to an intrusion that may determine the difference between success and
failure: the time that the attackers are in the environment prior to detection
(dwell time) and the time it takes security teams to identify, investigate,
understand, and contain the attackers’ actions (response time). In this specific
incident, the attackers’ dwell time at intrusion declaration was 35 days,
which is a significant amount of time given the level of access immediately
available upon compromise. However, by utilizing the methodology and
visibility described in this report, RSA IR was able to complete containment,
eradication, and remediation in only nine days. Further below we discuss the
methodology used by RSA IR to successfully detect, investigate, understand,
and contain the attackers before the actors could achieve their intended goal.
A significant number of organizations focus on majority systems software,
such as Microsoft Windows, for the predominant amount of their visibility.
This often leaves minority systems with very little visibility, protections, or
investigative observational points. Additionally, these minority systems, Linux
being the most significant example, often operate key public-facing or critical
data-based services. Not planning for visibility to ensure minority systems
are included in threat hunting, vulnerability assessments, network data
captures and forensic investigations leads to a false sense of organizational
security and ensures that attackers retain a refuge of critical systems inside
environments. The incident discussed in this report illustrates the dangers
present within this approach once attackers begin utilizing these systems
against organizations. In this report, we discuss the ways the CARBANAK
actors utilized these systems and the methodology used by RSA IR to
successfully respond to this threat.
It highlights the progression of analysis from threat hunting and initial
detection to root cause analysis, incident scoping and follow-on investigation.
The majority of the analysis conducted during this engagement was
i
5 i i
WHITE PAPER
performed using RSA’s flagship product, RSA NetWitness Suite. During this
investigation, RSA IR utilized RSA NetWitness Logs and Packets (formerly
RSA Security Analytics) for network visibility and RSA NetWitness Endpoint
(formerly RSA ECAT) for endpoint visibility. These marquee technologies
allow RSA IR and client analysts to process massive data sets, find forensically
interesting artifacts in near real time and do both more quickly than utilizing
standard incident response and forensic procedures. The purpose of this
report is to share actionable threat intelligence associated with a persistent
adversary, discuss the RSA Incident Response Team’s Threat Hunting and
Response Methodology in practice, and illustrate the use of this methodology
as used by RSA IR analysts during a live intrusion. To that end, the Threat
Hunting methodology, examples of detected activity and Incident Response
procedures illustrated in this report have been described in a manner that
can be effectively implemented by any security technology that affords
the analyst the necessary visibility. RSA IR also includes a Digital Appendix
containing file hashes, domain and IP addresses, and detection content for
both RSA NetWitness Endpoint and RSA NetWitness Logs and Packets. While
the detection content has been written specifically for the RSA NetWitness
Suite, each parser and query contains detailed descriptions of their detection
mechanisms for implementation into any available toolset with appropriate
visibility. The hope is that by publishing this report, RSA IR encourages and
empowers operational analysts to utilize Threat Hunting and the RSA IR
Methodology within their own environments.
The CARBANAK actors are financially motivated, advanced actors that have
historically targeted financial and hospitality laterals, with a recent move
into targeting restaurants. [6] This threat actor group has shown themselves
to be proficient and careful in their toolset utilization, consistently
removing evidence of any actions-on-objective as they proceed through
an environment. They have been observed utilizing various malware,
methods and communications, with tools and techniques often differing
greatly between targets. While this group has shown technical ingenuity in
techniques such as point-of-sale implants, [7] Google services command-andcontrol communications [8] and persistence via application shim databases [9],
they have also shown a propensity for using freely available or open source
6 Mesa, Huss; “FIN7/CARBANAK Threat Actor Unleashes Bateleur Jscript Backdoor”;
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/fin7carbanak-threat-actor-unleashes-
bateleur-jscript-backdoor
7 KYaneza; “Signed PoS Malware Used in Pre-Holiday Attacks, Linked to Targeted Attacks”;
http://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/signed-pos-malware-used-in-pre-
holiday-attacks-linked-to-targeted-attacks/
8 Griffin; “CARBANAK Group Uses Google for Malware Command-and-Control”;
https://blogs.forcepoint.com/security-labs/carbanak-group-uses-google-malware-command-
and-control
9 Erikson, McWhirt, Palombo; “To SDB, or Not to SDB: FIN7 Leveraging Shim Databases for Persistence”;
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/05/fin7-shim-databases-persistence.html
WHITE PAPER
toolsets for much of their lateral activities. Whatever the methods used,
CARBANAK has shown themselves to be highly persistent and determined
actors, able to rapidly compromise and traverse various environments while
quickly adapting to internal security controls.
This white paper covers a sampling of observed indicators derived and utilized
during this engagement. Included are the details regarding the observed
intrusion vector, entrenchment techniques, actions-on-objective, lateral
movement tools and methods, unique malicious files, and behavioral indicators
utilized in the identification, tracking and response of this actor group.
Included with the publication of this report is a Digital Appendix, containing
content for RSA NetWitness Logs and Packets and RSA NetWitness Endpoint
used to identify and track attacker activity throughout the environment during
this incident. All content should be tested before full integration into RSA
NetWitness Endpoint, RSA NetWitness Logs and Packets or third-party tools
to prevent any adverse effects from unknown environmental variables. More
information on the associated Digital Appendix is found in Section 7.
Disclaimer: This white paper and related graphics are provided for informational and/or educational
purposes. The information contained in this document is intended only as general guidance and is
not legal advice. Although the greatest care has been taken in the preparation and compilation of this
white paper, RSA, its servants and/or agents will accept no liability or responsibility of any kind. This
white paper is not intended to be a substitute for legal or other professional advice, and constitutes the
opinions of the author(s). All information gathered is believed correct as of October 2017. Corrections
should be sent to RSA for future editions. Redistribution or reproduction of this document is prohibited
without written permission of RSA.
6
7
WHITE PAPER