Introduction
Check Point Research, in collaboration with Sygnia’s Incident Response Team, has been
tracking and responding to the activities of Scarred Manticore, an Iranian nation-state
threat actor that primarily targets government and telecommunication sectors in the
Middle East. Scarred Manticore, linked to the prolific Iranian actor OilRig (a.k.a APT34,
EUROPIUM, Hazel Sandstorm), has persistently pursued high-profile organizations,
leveraging access to systematically exfiltrate data using tailor-made tools.
In the latest campaign, the threat actor leveraged the LIONTAIL framework, a
sophisticated set of custom loaders and memory resident shellcode payloads.
LIONSTAIL’s implants utilize undocumented functionalities of the HTTP.sys driver to
extract payloads from incoming HTTP traffic. Multiple observed variants of LIONTAIL
associated malware suggest Scarred Manticore generates a tailor-made implant for each
compromised server, allowing the malicious activities to blend into and be undiscernible
from legitimate network traffic.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2023/from-albania-to-the-middle-east-the-scarred-manticore-is-listening/ 1/21
1/16/24, 1:06 PM From Albania to the Middle East: The Scarred Manticore is Listening - Check Point Research
We currently track this activity as Scarred Manticore, an Iranian threat actor that is most
closely aligned with DEV-0861. Although the LIONTAIL framework itself appears to be
unique and bears no clear code overlaps with any known malware family, other tools
used in those attacks overlap with previously reported activities. Most notably, some of
those were eventually linked back to historic OilRig or OilRig-affiliated clusters. However,
we do not have sufficient data to properly attribute the Scarred Manticore to OilRig, even
though we do believe they’re likely related.
The evolution in the tools and capabilities of Scarred Manticore demonstrates the
progress the Iranian actors have undergone over the last few years. The techniques
utilized in recent Scarred Manticore operations are notably more sophisticated compared
to previous activities CPR has tied to Iran.
In this article, we provide a technical analysis of the latest tools and the evolution of
Scarred Manticore’s activity over time. This report details our understanding of Scarred
Manticore, most notably its novel malware framework LIONTAIL, but also provides an
overview of other toolsets we believe are used by the same actor, some of which were
publicly exposed in the past. This includes, but is not limited to, tools used in the intrusion
into the Albanian government infrastructure, web shells observed in high-profile attacks in
the Middle East, and recently reported WINTAPIX driver-based implants.
While we finalized this blog post, a technical analysis of part of this activity
was published by fellow researchers from Cisco Talos. While it overlaps with our findings
to some extent, our report provides additional extended information, in-depth insights,
and a broader retrospective regarding the threat actor behind this operation.