TForm4.FormCreate:
Upon execution, the first activity of interest performed by the infostealer happens inside
TForm4.FormCreate.
It starts with the setup of a keylogger. In order to do so, Madi infostealer uses the Windows function
"SetWindowsHookEx" with the "WH_KEYBOARD_LL" Id_Hook.
Once the keylogger has been installed, the infostealer reads the "nam.dll" file (dropped by the
downloader) to get the BOT prefix and concatenates it with the computer name. Hereafter this will be
referred to as "BOTID_TMP". The final BOTID contains some numbers derived from the "C:" Volume
Serial Number, as we will see later on.
The following timers are then disabled in this specific order:
Timer1, Timer16, Timer18, Timer17, Timer20, Timer19, Timer24, Timer8, Timer30, Timer31, Timer33,
Timer34, Timer36, Timer37, Timer38, Timer39, Timer40, Timer41, Timer44, Timer45, Timer46,
Timer48, Timer49, Timer50.
The malware uses a lot of external files to receive commands, which is another indicator of poor
programming skills. Those files are used to inform the malware about the infection status. In order to
avoid confusion, hereafter, when referring to a file, it is in the malware directory ("Templates" directory),
unless stated otherwise.
The infostealer looks for the following files:
"fsdiskget.dll": If found, it enables Timer 23 – otherwise, disables it.
"nrbindek.dll" : If found, it enables Timer 28 – otherwise, disables it.
"specialfile.dll": If found, it deletes it.
"filesend.xls": Doesn't actually look for it; just tries to delete it.
"begirnagir.htp" : If NOT found, it disables Timer3
"filebind.xls": If found, it enables Timer29 – otherwise, disables it.
Next, Timer14 and Timer13 are both disabled.
The Trojan looks for "First.dll", which is created the first time the malware is executed.
If already present, the code returns from TForm4.FormCreate. Otherwise, the following happens.
It creates first.dll with a hardcoded stream of bytes (not a real .dll, like the .dll mentioned above, as we will
see later on when we analyze the timers more closely).
Like the downloaders, the infostealer also generates fake files with random names. Before returning from
TForm4.FormCreate, 6 loops will be executed:
XLS: 51 fake XLS files with random names (7 characters) are generated using a hardcoded stream of bytes.
EXE: 51 fake EXE files with random names (6 characters) are generated using a hardcoded stream of
bytes.
DLL: 201 fake DLL files with random names (9 characters) are generated using a hardcoded stream of
bytes.
TXT: 51 fake TXT files with random names (4 characters) are generated using a hardcoded stream of
bytes.
XML: 51 fake XML files with random names (8 characters) are generated using a hardcoded stream of
bytes.
HTM: 51 fake HTM files with random names (8 characters) are generated using a hardcoded stream of
bytes.