Moker
In October 2015, Israeli cyber-security firm Ensilo discovered a remote access Trojan
(RAT), dubbed Moker, inside the sensitive network of a customer. A RAT is not an APT.
Malware is the tool that supports the APT campaign. However, Ensilo contends that the RAT is
complex enough to suggest that it may be developed and deployed by an emerging APT group.
The quality of the code is high. The code checks its return values, validates its pointers,
handles its exceptions, and prevents buffer overflows. The malware also contains obfuscation
measures to inhibit deconstruction and analysis attempts. Since the digital signatures of the
malware did not register on Virus Total (a research tool for recognizing malware signatures),
and because the malware itself contains features dissimilar to other campaigns, there is the
possibility that the security firm either uncovered an undiscovered malware campaign or that
they caught a threat as it emerged.
Neither the identity of the developer of the malware nor the infection vectors are
known. The malware targets the operating system of Microsoft Windows hosts. The single
sample of the malware discovered communicated with a domain that corresponded to a HTTP
server in Montenegro. Based on its efforts to communicate with the C2 infrastructure, Ensilo
postulates that the server is owned by the attacker who hosts C2 infrastructure via a Virtual
Private Server (VPS) or a static IP rather than a hacked domain or a shared hosting server.
Moker is a remote access Trojan (RAT) capable of seizing complete control of the victim
system. It generates a new administrative user account and it opens a RDP channel to allow
the adversary to remotely access the infected system. If the remote desktop service is
disabled, the malware will attempt to enable it as a background service. Moker establishes a
persistent residence in the operating system files so that it appears a legitimate OS level
process with system wide privileges and access to system settings. In operation, the malware
injects its malicious code into the legitimate code of different system processes. In particular,
it targets Explorer.exe, Svchost.exe, and csrss.exe. In order to execute code without the user’s
consent and at higher privileges, Moker either infects a program that already runs at elevated
privileges or it exploits a flaw in the design of Windows to elevate the privilege of the DLL. In
the latter case, Windows always loads certain DLLs from the system directory at escalated
privileges; as a result, Moker writes a file named “ActionQueue.dll” into the “sysprep”
directory so that the malware always runs with elevated privileges. Afterward, the malware
modifies system sensitive files and system security settings so that it remains undetected for
63
as long as possible while maintaining access to the greatest amount of access to the system
files. The malware itself is capable of recording HTTP(s) traffic, taking screenshots, logging
keystrokes, and exfiltrating files. The malware also enables the attacker to use the infected
machine as a proxy server, similar to a Socks server, so that the adversary can navigate the
local network.
The malware contains a hidden control panel module which allows the adversary to
direct it and access the malware without an active internet connection. Consequently, the
malicious actor can exploit a VPN connection and legitimate, stolen user credentials to operate
the malware on infected air-gapped systems. The local access panel may have been an
intentional feature added by the developer so that malicious activity might be confused for
the activity of a legitimate employee who VPN’ed into the system. Alternately, it could be a
developer tool that was mistakenly left in the malware.
The malware features significant anti-analysis and anti-debugging techniques to inhibit
deconstruction and investigation of the form and functionality of the malware. Moker
bypasses or disables antivirus, renders Microsoft Windows user access controls ineffective,
and confounds sandboxing and virtual machine analysis with encryption and multistage
installation. The malware evades signature based anti-virus and network monitoring solutions
by compressing its code. In an attempt to prevent sandbox and virtual analysis, Moker installs
in two stages. The first stage dropper contains no malicious code and only delivers the
malware infrastructure. Upon successful installation and validation that the infected
environment is a legitimate target, the first dropper calls a C2 server or a local directory for the
second stage delivery. The second stage of the malware is the malicious payload containing
encrypted malware files and system monitoring tools. If the environment is confirmed a
legitimate target, then the first stage malware decrypts the payload and injects the malware
into the victim system processes. The malware also contains complex code and instructions
that do nothing except deter deconstruction and analysis attempts.