11 Technical Details
However, before passing execution to klif.dll, the code attempts alternative routes.
First, it attempts to find the name of the following format “api-ms-win-shell-XXXX.
dll”, where “X” can be any decimal number. The name is valid if there is no module with
such filename loaded into current process. The code attempts to iteratively find such
name starting from api-ms-win-shell-0000.dll, api-ms-win-shell-0001.dll, api-ms-winshell-0002.dll and so on. This may be a dependency to the Duqu platform component
that is yet to be discovered.
Right after this, if the name was found, the code attempts to map a section kernel object
by name, which is generated using a PRNG-based algorithm. The name of the section
has the following template: “\BaseNamedObjects{XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX}”, where “X” is any hexadecimal digit that is generated based on current
system boot time. So far, the name of the section is “machine/boot time” dependent,
which makes it unique but allows other processes of modules to locate such section if
they use the same name generation algorithm. This section is accessed in different other
parts of the code and modules. Lets refer to this section as OSBoot-section from now.
Once the section name is generated the code tries to open such section and, if it is
found, it takes some values from it and attempts to open a specific device and issue a
number of IOCTL codes to the driver. The name of the driver device as well as IOCTL
codes are located inside a section of the kernel mode driver KMART.dll that is described
below.
The code developer has a preference for using sections to any other ways to access
data. Another use of sections appears to be in mapping the part of code/data where
klif.dll is embedded and then finding that section using a hardcoded magic QWORD
number: 0xA1B5F8FC0C2E1064. Once the section is found in address space of current
process the code attempts to pass execution to it. This alternative execution route is
not applicable to current MSI file package but simply exists in the code probably due
to common code template used for building current MSI package. It may also be an
indicator of another Duqu platform component that wasn’t used in the attacks that we
observed.