C groups. Besides well-known events such as
the attacks against Estonia, Georgia, and Ukraine;
recent headlines have seen Russian hacking syndicates
credited with targeting NATO officials at conferences,
stealing hundreds of millions from banks, and
successfully penetrating the White House unclassified
computer network. The increase in cyber-exploits is
also accompanied by a much more aggressive Russian
foreign policy, which has seen them invade Ukraine
and literally seize control of sovereign territory in
Crimea. So it should not surprise anyone that just
as nuclear capable Russian bombers are increasingly
penetrating foreign airspace, their cyber-warriors
appear to be ramping up their intrusions as well.
But this time, perhaps for the first time, root9B has
managed to find where they were hiding and identified
effective defenses against their intended attacks. This is
what happened in late April and early May of this year.
Our firm of cybersecurity experts, staffed by
veterans from the United States Department of
Defense, identified suspicious activity within one
of our client’s networks; a threat which on closer
inspection bore the unique signature of a group of
Russian hackers well-known in the cyber-security
2 root9b.com
industry. As Cyber Threat analysts continued to
follow the indicators, they uncovered a global
attack in the making, and took steps to protect not
only our clients, but other identified victims as well.
Sofacy, Sednit, Sourface, APT-28, and a host of other
names are all used to describe this particularly prolific
and superbly talented group of Russian hackers, which
has strongly suspected ties to Russian intelligence
services.  In the last year alone Russian hackers have
reportedly stolen up to 900 million dollars from banks
around the world. Over the past three to five years
they have built the largest botnets ever discovered, and
stolen the log-in and password credentials to literally
APT-28
May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report
tens of millions of online accounts. Well known for Sofacy’s unique signatures is a perfect cover behind
their ability to infiltrate and remain undiscovered which the Russian Government prefers to remain.
in networks for long periods of time, they may be