Crowdstrike Global Intelligence Team
CrowdStrike Falcon Host
CrowdStrike Falcon Host is an endpoint threat
detection and response product that identifies
unknown malware, detects zero-day threats, and
prevents damage from targeted attacks in real-time.
Falcon Host is comprised of two core components,
the cloud-based management console and the
on-premises host-based sensor that continuously
monitors threat activity at the endpoint to prevent
damage in real-time.
Falcon Host leverages a lightweight kernel-mode
sensor that shadows, captures, and correlates low
level operating system events to instantly identify
the adversary tradecraft and activities through
Stateful Execution Inspection (SEI) at the endpoint
and Machine Learning in the cloud. As opposed
to focusing on malware signatures, indicators of
compromise, exploits, and vulnerabilities, Falcon Host
instead identifies mission objectives of the adversary
leveraging the Kill Chain model and provides realtime
detection by focusing on what the attacker is
doing, as opposed to looking nfor a specific,
easily changeable indicator used in an attack.
Without performing intrusive and performance
impacting scans of the system, Falcon Host’s highly
efficient real-time monitoring of all system activity
is the only security solution that provides maximum
visibility into all adversary activities, including
Adversary-in-Motion: reconnaissance, exploitation,
privilege escalation, lateral movement, and
exfiltration.
Falcon Host delivers insight into past and current
attacks not only on a single host, but also across
devices and networks.
Falcon Host Key Features


Endpoint threat detection and response solution


Cloud-managed application with easily deployed sensors for


Mac & Windows

Kernel-mode sensors requires no reboot on updates. Less

than 2MB footprint executable


Detects attacks based on adversary activity


Integrates with existing security architecture and SIEM tools


through Falcon Host APIs
Technology Drivers:
Stateful Execution inspection
Stateful Execution Inspection (SEI) tracks execution state and
links together various stages of the kill chain, from initial code
execution to data exfiltration.
CrowdStrike’s Real-time Stateful Execution Engine performs
inspection and analysis to understand the full context of a
cyber attack. SEI is critical to understanding the entire
attack life cycle and preventing the damage from advanced
malware and targeted attacks. Existing security technologies
that focus solely on malware signatures, incidators of
compromise, exploits, and vulnerabilities
fail to protect against the majority of attacks as they are blind
to the full scope of adversary activity.
Benefits

Identify and protect against damage from determined

attackers who are undetected by existing passive
defense solutions

Understand who is attacking you, why and what they want

to steal or damage

Alert and stop exfiltration of sensitive information from

compromised machines Protect remote users when they
are outside of the corporate network

Protect remote users when they are outside of the

corporate network

No on-premises equipment needed, reducing overall

total cost of ownership
59