Conclusion
Page 36
This report detailed techniques and tools that are frequently used by an advanced adversary being referred to by the RSA IR
Team as Shell_Crew. The information delivered in this report was provided so organizations can turn the data into
actionable intelligence, for detection or prevention of this advanced threat. As of the date of this report, Shell_Crew
continues to be a formidable threat group that is actively attacking organizations. In instances where Shell_Crew has
already breached an organization, the RSA IR Team has observed that the adversary will aggressively attempt to regain a
foothold once their Trojans have been eradicated and communication channels severed. If any of their existing backdoors
or Web shells remain active in the environment, Shell_Crew will begin to redeploy other tiers of malware that communicate
through different channels, which may use different protocols and obfuscation techniques.
The RSA IR Team has observed instances where Shell_Crew has persisted in enterprises for years before they are detected.
During that time, Shell_Crew updated or replaced existing malicious backdoors, continued to map the enterprise while
installing Web shells or poisoning existing web pages, and performed internal reconnaissance of victims to determine what
AV and security products are being deployed in these environments. These tenacious approaches make it difficult for an
under resourced internal security team to detect, and furthermore, eradicate this adversary.
The RSA IR Team will continue to track the TTPs used by this group and distribute information about this and other
adversaries. The information that is provided in the digital appendix and throughout the report can be ingested directly into
RSA products or used agnostically with other products.
If you have any questions about this emerging threat profile or the RSA Incident Response Team, please send an email to
FirstResponse@rsa.com or contact your RSA Account Representative.
RSA Emerging Threat Profile: Shell_Crew
RSA Incident Response