6. PREVENTION AND REMEDIATION
How could such an attack have been prevented? This involves a complex ecosystem composed of multiple
actors. The first security mechanism that could have blocked such an attack is Secure Boot. When Secure
Boot is enabled, each and every firmware component that is loaded by the firmware needs to be properly
signed, thus ensuring the integrity of the firmware. We strongly suggest that you enable it. This is the base
defense against attacks targeting UEFI firmware.
As is the case for software, the UEFI firmware should always be kept up-to-date. Visit your motherboard
website to make sure that you have the latest version available.
You should also make sure that all of your systems have modern chipsets with Platform Controller Hub
(starting from Intel Series 5 chipsets onwards). This will ensure that the security mechanism against
the race condition vulnerability we mentioned [18] is available on the platform.
The other part of firmware security is in the hands of UEFI/BIOS vendors. The security mechanisms provided
by the platform need to be properly configured by the system firmware to actually protect it. Thus, firmware
must be built with security in mind from the ground up. Fortunately, more and more security researchers
are looking at firmware security thus contributing to improve this field and raise awareness of firmware
vendors. It is also worth mentioning CHIPSEC [16], an open source framework to perform low-level security
assessments, which is very helpful to determine if your platform is properly configured.
Remediation of a UEFI firmware-based compromise is a hard problem. There are no easy ways of cleaning
the system from such threat nor are there any security products that can save the day. In the case we described
in this paper, the SPI flash memory needs to be reflashed to remove the rootkit. This is not a trivial task and
that definitely is not a recommended procedure for the average computer owner. Upgrading the UEFI firm­
ware may remove the rootkit given that the update rewrites the whole BIOS region of the SPI flash memory.
If reflashing the UEFI firmware is not an option for you, the only alternative is to change the motherboard
of the infected system.