Operation Blockbuster: Remote Administration Tools and Content Staging Malware Report 51
SierraAlfa saves the WhiskeyAlfa binary to disk as igfxtrayex.exe in the same directory as the running SierraAlfa
image and then immediately executes the binary by calling CreateProcess . The target list is parsed to extract target
information and compromised accounts to use against the targets. The target list consists of two sections: a section
specifying the username and passwords for compromised accounts and a section containing target servers to infect.
SierraAlfa parses the target information as a list of compromised accounts until it reaches a line containing only a hyphen,
at which point it assumes the rest of the file contains the target hosts list.
The structure for the account information is as follows:
```
  domain\username|password
```
The structure for the target list is:
```
  hostname|IP1|IP2
```
The hostname field specifies the Windows name of the computer, IP1 field specifies the first IP address of the computer,
and the optional IP2 field specifies a second IP address for the server. The fact that the developer(s) allow for multiple
addressing options for a target illustrates that the developer(s) took into consideration that an infected host may be
on different network segments than the target computer; as such, different routing and addressing methods may be
necessary in order to compromise a host. The use of multiple addressing options for a target shows both a sufficient level
of reconnaissance within the victim’s network and a desire by the developer(s) to ensure as many compromised targets as
possible with the least amount of attacker intervention.
With the WhiskeyAlfa executable dropped and executed, and the targeting information loaded, the task of distributing
itself across the victim’s infrastructure begins. SierraAlfa maintains two lists: a list of targets (loaded by the previous step)
and a list of hosts that it has already infected, or at the very least attempted to infect. Until the size of both lists becomes
equal, indicating that all of the targeted hosts have been attacked, SierraAlfa attempts to infect up to 10 hosts at a time,
with each attack occurring in its own thread. When SierraAlfa reaches a thread saturation level (10 threads), SierraAlfa
enters a tight loop that simply sleeps 100ms before checking to see if the current number of threads has fallen below 10.
This thread management system is effective but rudimentary, indicating that the developer(s) were not well versed in
multithreaded, asynchronous programming on Windows.
The selection of which host to attack at any given time is completely random. To avoid the duplication of effort that would
stem from attacking a host that has already been attacked, the randomly selected hosts’ entries are checked to ensure they
have not already been used. If the host has already been attacked by the instance of SierraAlfa, a new host is randomly
selected until a host is found that has not yet been attacked. This behavior would suggest that the longer SierraAlfa runs
and attacks hosts, the longer the selection process will take. However, this methodology does allow for a better statistical
coverage model when viewed as a larger set of infected hosts all using the same targeting information that exists in
the same order. The randomization of which hosts to attack at any given point means that the probability of two hosts
attacking the same sequence of targets in the same order is relatively low for a large enough data set. To that point, the
target list within SierraAlfa-One contains over 20,000 target machines.