Pay2Key – December 2020
Amital is an Israeli software company that was breached by this threat actor [8] . Leveraging Amital’s
network with a supply chain attack method, Pay2Key spread to over 40 firms from Israel.
The attacker used the same ransomware file from November and added several new tools to his tool
set. In this chapter, we will examine the current attack by Pay2Key.
Updated TTPs
Exploitation
The analysis of the infrastructure of Habana identified a vulnerable Fortinet server that was breached
and its credentials were leaked to an underground forum. This server was vulnerable to Fortinet SSL
VPN (CVE-2018-13379) [9] .
We assess that this server was hacked by the threat actor using this exploit.
FRP
By monitoring this threat actor, we identified an FRPC tool, sharing the same IP address that was part
of the December infrastructure according to the INDC alert and we attributed it to Fox Kitten . This file
was deployed to the victim’s network via another tool packed with MPRESS Packer. The deployed file
“svchost.exe” is a compiled version of the FRP Client tool.
As in the previous FRPC file, the organization’s name is written:
Persistency
This adversary created an account on the victim’s compromised asset with admin privileges. The
attacker used the following credentials:
Username: DefaultAccounts$
Password: Kharpedar123!
8 https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/tech-news/.premium-iranian-hackers-hit-over-80-israeli-firms-as-massivecyberattack-continues-1.9375486
9 https://twitter.com/Bank_Security/status/1331376128519528450/photo/1

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
15 | P a g e
Command and Control Communication
In the Sawnscan report about Pay2Key [10], the company presented dllhost.exe as one of the applications
used by the attack to be able to access the compromised asset. This file is a version of Ngrok software
that was hidden in the victim’s computer since the attacker hacked it.
11
Leaks
In Mid December 2020, Pay2Key changed the appearance of their leak site. The leak site now has a
background image with the map of Israel. This was most likely done after the public announcement
that Intel Habana Labs were encrypted by Pay2Key. Habana Labs is an Israeli start-up that was
acquired by Intel.
The current leak site has all the “official” ways Pay2Key communicate, mail, KeyBase and Twitter.
10 https://www.swascan.com/pay2key/
11 Source: Swascan report

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
16 | P a g e
Unlike the first wave, the Pay2Key attacker contacts its followers and the Israeli media via Twitter
account instead of a telegram channel. This time, the threat actor focuses specifically on Israeli victims,
as is presented in the next picture.

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
17 | P a g e