Attacker profile
Since mid-2014, a group of attackers was observed by different computer security professionals, including
Trend Micro and ClearSky. We have documented some of their moves. The set of targeted attack campaigns
have been dubbed “Rocket Kitten” and the perpetrators as the “Rocket Kitten Group.” Additional sources
indicate that the group may have been active as early as 2011 and increased their activities in 2014.
ClearSky first monitored attacks that involved GHOLE—a malicious version of the Core Impact Pro [®]
penetration-testing tool. Core Impact Pro is a legitimate commercial security product that, being a powerful
investigative security tool, also bears some potential for misuse with malicious purposes. It is executed by
a malicious Microsoft [®] Office macro. Following ClearSky’s research, Gadi Evron and Tillmann Werner, in
a presentation at the Chaos Communication Congress (CCC), reported attacks conducted with the same
malware that according to them very strongly pointed to nation-state origin [4]. This March, Trend Micro
published a paper on Operation Woolen-Goldfish, which targeted a number of European businesses and
organizations via spear phishing [5]. This finding showed a connection to the Rocket Kitten campaign seen
in December 2014. The Trend Micro paper also showed the use of a new exclusive piece of malware that
threat actors called “CWoolger.”
Just this June, ClearSky detected new movements from the group, which showed an attack intensity that
exceeded our estimations by far. ClearSky has learned of 550 targets, most of which are located in the
Middle East. It documented some findings in “Thamar Reservoir [6].” In this paper, Trend Micro and
ClearSky combined research results to shed further light on Rocket Kitten’s tactics and methods, and show
that the focus right now is very much on individuals rather than on organizations.
7 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2
Reported victims
Research presented/
published
Timeline of Rocket Kitten-related activities