Conclusion
The Uroburos rootkit is one of the most advanced rootkits we have ever analyzed. The oldest driver
we identified was compiled in 2011, which means that the campaign remained undiscovered for at
least three years.
The investment to develop a complete framework such as Uroburos is extremely high. The
developer team behind the development and the design of such an enhanced framework is really
skilled. We believe that, until today, the team behind Uroburos has developed an even more
sophisticated framework, which still remains undiscovered.
The design is highly professional; the fact the attackers use a driver and a virtual file system in two
separate files which can only work in combination, makes the analysis really complicated. One needs
to have the two components to correctly analyze the framework. The driver contains all of the
necessary functionality and the file system alone simply cannot be decrypted.
The network design is extraordinarily efficient, too; for an incident response team, it is always
complicated to deal with peer-to-peer infrastructure. It is also hard to handle passive nodes, because
one cannot quickly identify the link between the different infected machines.
This kind of data stealing software is too expensive to be used as common spyware. We assume that
the attackers reserve the Uroburos framework for dedicated and critical targets. This is the main
reason why the rootkit was only detected many years after the suspected first infection.
Furthermore, we assume that the framework is designed to perform cyber espionage within
governments and high profile enterprises but, due to its modularity, it can be easily extended to
gain new features and perform further attacks as long as it remains undetected within its target.
There are some strong indications which suggest that the group behind Uroburos is the same as the
one behind Agent.BTZ, which allegedly was part of an intelligence agency cyberattack targeting US
military bases in 2008. Notable hints include the usage of the exact same encryption key then and
now, as well as the presence of Russian language in both cases.