Final thoughts
The TTPs of some threat actors remain fairly consistent over time (such as using hot topics
such (COVID-19) to entice users to download and execute malicious attachments sent in
spear-phishing emails), while other groups reinvent themselves, developing new toolsets and
widening their scope of activities, for example, to include new platforms. And while some
threat actors develop very sophisticated tools, for example, MosiacRegressor UEFI implant,
others have great success with basic TTPs. Our regular quarterly reviews are intended to
highlight the key developments of APT groups.
Here are the main trends that we’ve seen in Q3 2020:
Geo-politics continues to drive the development of many APT campaigns, as seen in
recent months in the activities of Transparent Tribe, Sidewinder, Origami Elephant and
MosaicRegressor, and in the ‘naming and shaming’ of various threat actors by the
NCSC and the US Department of Justice.
Organizations in the financial sector also continue to attract attention: the activities of
the mercenary group DeathStalker is a recent example.
We continue to observe the use of mobile implants in APT attacks with recent examples
including Transparent Tribe and Origami Elephant.
While APT threat actors remain active across the globe, recent hotspots of activity have
been Southeast Asia, the Middle East and various regions affected by the activities of
Chinese-speaking APT groups.
Unsurprisingly, we continue to see COVID-19-themed attacks – this quarter they
included WellMess and Sidewinder.
Among the most interesting APT campaigns this quarter were DeathStalker and
MosaicRegressor: the former underlining the fact that APT groups can achieve their
aims without developing highly sophisticated tools; the latter representing the leadingedge in malware development.
As always, we would note that our reports are the product of our visibility into the threat
landscape. However, it should be borne in mind that, while we strive to continually improve,
there is always the possibility that other sophisticated attacks may fly under our radar.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ 8/8