Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTPs) Evolution
With the goals of obtaining documentary files from the
systems of Ukrainian state bodies, the hacker group’s TTPs
"Armageddon" have gone through several stages of their
evolution.
Malicious software was intended to provide remote access
to the system, the ability to execute commands on it, data
collection and exfiltration, distribution to systems without an
Internet connection (via removable data storages) etc.
It is worth mentioning that in terms of architecture and
implementation complexity, the used tools are not sophisticated,
but have proven to be quite effective. Throughout the period of
criminal activity, the group did not show a desire for lateral
movement within the network. The group’s TTPs provided mass
compromising of user’s systems as a result of malware targeted
delivery to them and infecting each individual system. That
happened until 2021.
As it was already stated, the group uses droppers to deliver
malware, which are delivered via malicious e-mails. At the stage
of its installation an archive in SFX format was sent to the victim
together with a phishing letter. While unpacking this the Remote
Manipulator System (developed by the Russian company
"TektonIT") was deployed.
At the final stage, the deployment of remote access tools, as
well as tools for collecting information takes place. At the stage
of its formation with the phishing letter, in an archive SFX format,
Remote Manipulator System (developed by the Russian company
"TektonIT") was sent to the victim.
However, almost immediately, it was replaced by another
remote access tool, the use of which is still recorded, "UltraVNC"
(Figure 4) - free software for the Windows operating system that
uses the VNC protocol (a tool for remote management of other
information systems).
Figure 4. UltraVNC
The group was also looking for software with the ability to
identify and retrieve data from removable data storages, as well
as isolated (not connected to the Internet) information systems.
From 2014 to 2016 it is known about the usage of the file
ChkFlsh.exe (mikelab.kiev.ua).
At the same time, the main tool of the hacker group
Armageddon from 2016 has been malicious software Pterodo,
which actually allowed to solve key issues of deployment in the
targeted system, securing and conducting intelligence activities.