TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted
upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the
particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing
herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro
reserves the right to modify the contents of this document
at any time without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy
is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise
related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to
the original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
Published by
Trend Micro Research
Written by
Nelson William Gamazo Sanchez,
Aliakbar Zahravi, John Zhang, Eliot Cao,
Cedric Pernet, Daniel Lunghi,
Jaromir Horejsi, and Joseph C. Chen
Stock image used under license from
Shutterstock.com
For Raimund Genes (1963-2017)
One distinguishinged characteristic of the operation is the type of websites it targets for
compromise to deploy the spying samples. During the our analysis, we was found that the
operation used international associations on the compromised websites associated with
North Korea to deploy the N-day and work as a server for hosting malware that it deploys
using multiple attack vectors.
Interestingly enough,access to these websites is blocked for users with South Korean IP
addresses, so this watering hole campaign likely targets the worldwide Korean diaspora
that is interested in Korean issues.
Figure 2. Accessing the pro-North Korean website from a South Korean IP address
Figure 3. Translation of the warning message using Google Translate
All the analyzed websites are linked, with some of them even linked from their front pages.
Furthermore, we found that all the compromised servers are using GNUBOARD, [3] a South
Korea Content Management System (CMS). We couldn’t identify if the compromised
websites were attacked using an N-day or 0-day attack; the only data we have only
indicated that some of them were running GNUBOARD v4 and GNUBOARD v5. However,
both versions had reported RCE vulnerabilities, which led us to think that the websites were
compromised using one of the existing N-days.
One of this publication’s intentions, apart from uncovering the campaign, is to increase
awareness of the risks in using GNUBOARD. We did a quick scan and found almost a
hundred websites using GNUBOARD, with some hosted using the older version 4. Note
that our scan was limited to websites that we were interested in doing research on and
related to this publication, so in that sense, we assume that the use of GNUBOARD is much
more expansive.
During our investigation of the samples, we found one that was very similar to SLUB, but
instead of using Slack, it used Mattermost, [4] an open-source version replacement for Slack
(we have reached out to Mattermost regarding this issue, and they have since released a
statement that can be read in the conclusion). We considered this sample a new variant of
SLUB.
We discovered that the first installation date of the malicious Mattermost server was March
10, 2020, which indicated when the “mm” (SLUB) samples started to become active. After
further analysis we tracked back the Mattermost activity to February, 2020 as will be
discussed later.
The six binaries we discovered in the samples were three different malware variants,
including SLUB. Besides the SLUB variant, we found two other malware we named dneSpy
and agfSpy, following the same naming convention of the attacker for the first three
characters. Our analysis revealed that the samples did not contain any functionality related
to financial interests — instead, we found features intended to exfiltrate information and
control infected systems.
Another notable characteristic of this operation is that, in both vectors, the attacker skipped
the samples’ deployment to the target machine if certain security products were installed
on it. Further sections will show the list of excluded security products. This implies that the
attacker targets unprotected systems and is concerned with remaining stealthy — at least
in the current stage of the operation.
While examining dneSpy, we found that the sample C&C server is configured to target
certain types of victims, with location as a criteria. Once the victim’s system is infected,
the malware creates an account in the server, which exempts the victim from future
infections. The attacker might have made some errors during this part of the process, as
we encountered some situations where the samples crashed if it was already registered.
We think that the group behind these attacks is the same one operating the SLUB malware.
The following section will provide a general view of the campaign and the relation between
the different samples, after which we will describe each sample separately.