Characteristics
Grandoreiro is another Delphi-written Latin American banking trojan we have identified
during our research. Grandoreiro has been active at least since 2017 targeting Brazil and
Peru, expanding to Mexico and Spain in 2019 (see Figure 1 for a current detection heat
map). The fact that it attacks its victims by displaying fake pop-up windows that try to
persuade victims to divulge sensitive information should come as no surprise to anyone
who has read the previous pieces in the series.
.
Figure 1. Heat map showing ESET’s detections of Grandoreiro.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/04/28/grandoreiro-how-engorged-can-exe-get/ 1/15
6/15/2020 Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE get? | WeLiveSecurity
Grandoreiro, as with any other Latin American banking trojan, employs backdoor
functionality, being capable of:
manipulating windows
updating itself
capturing keystrokes
simulating mouse and keyboard actions
navigating the victim’s browser to a chosen URL
logging the victim out or restarting the machine
blocking access to chosen websites
Persistence is ensured by creating a .LNK file in the Windows startup directory. Of
importance is the fact that Grandoreiro uses the same algorithm for decrypting its
internal strings as Casbaneiro. We believe this is due to information sharing between
authors of banking trojans in Latin America.
Grandoreiro collects the following information about its victims:
computer name
username
operating system version and bitness
whether Diebold Warsaw GAS Tecnologia (an application, popular in Brazil, to
protect access to online banking) is installed
list of installed security products
In some versions, it also steals credentials stored in the Google Chrome web browser and
data stored in Microsoft Outlook.
The authors of Grandoreiro seem to be developing the banking trojan very rapidly, as we
observe at least several new versions each month. We also suspect they are developing at
least two variants simultaneously.
The authors seem to focus mainly on two areas. The first is hiding the actual C&C address
using the Domain Generation Algorithm (DGA) described in next section. The second is
making the banking trojan modular. This is an interesting approach as the authors first
introduced separate Delphi forms for each bank targeted (which is quite common), but
lately even created separate DLLs for each targeted bank. We have not seen this approach
in any other Latin American banking trojan we have analyzed.