Area 12: Scenario planning
FA2.KF21 Scenario planning did not inform
response and recovery strategies
Stakeholders stated that, despite having dealt with a
vast array of major emergencies, they felt ill-prepared
for dealing with an IT outage or cyber crisis of this
scale, or a specific ransomware attack (see also
finding FA2.KF8) . Specifically, individuals initially
struggled to comprehend the scale and size of the
Incident, and felt unable to foresee the contingent
296 Terms of Reference - Cyber Attack Legal and Data Workstream Steering Group June 2021
297 Terms of Reference - Cyber Attack Legal and Data Workstream Steering Group June 2021
298 DPC Report 15 July 2021
299 Data Protection Monitoring Process
300 Terms of Reference - Cyber Attack Legal and Data Workstream Steering Group June 2021
84 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
impacts that may occur over time. [301] As with many
organisations impacted by ransomware attacks, there
was initially a belief that the Incident would cause
impact for several days to weeks, before a realisation
dawned that these types of events, and their longer
term impacts, play out over several weeks and
months.
This uncertainty stemmed, in part, from a lack
of any formal scenario planning process within
the existing Major Emergency Management and
Incident Management Frameworks and pre-prepared
scenario-specific playbooks. Scenario-specific
playbooks define the likely decisions and actions
required of a senior team, given the potential risks
and impacts of the scenario (see also finding FA2.
KF5). The existence of a cyber response plan or
ransomware playbook would have supported the
NCMT’s ability to foresee the likely impacts and
consequences of the Conti attack, combatting
what one stakeholder described as ‘a failure of
imagination’.
The HSE also does not have a formal overarching
process or system to guide the use of scenario
planning during crisis response, in order to inform the
response and recovery strategy during an incident,
irrespective of the nature of that event. This would
involve identifying potential triggers and escalators for
the worst, best and most likely scenarios; identifying
consequent likely impacts; and implementing
mitigating measures. While some stakeholders noted
they were able to conduct hasty scenario planning
during the Incident, particularly when determining
patient care workarounds, this was performed in an
ad hoc fashion at the hospital or CHO level.
FA2.KR21 Scenario planning should be informed
by the risk register, the process embedded in
the Crisis Management Plan, and the activity
conducted throughout incident and crisis
response (see strategic recommendation 4.2 in
section 4)
The HSE should ensure that the risk register is
used to drive the creation of severe but plausible
scenarios against which the HSE should validate its
resilience capability is validated. The process should
be extended to engage individuals from the HSE’s
senior leadership team, risk management, clinical and
services continuity and crisis management disciplines
in regular scenario planning against the organisation’s
top risks. [302,303] This is best conducted in a workshop
format to identify potential political, economic,
sociological, technical, legal and regulatory,
environmental and organisational impacts related to
each of the HSE’s top risks, and to then explore the
worst, best and most likely scenarios for each.
Mitigating actions resulting from these workshops
should be assigned to an owner with the appropriate
level of authority to facilitate organisational change
where required, and tracked throughout their lifecycle
to confirm they are completed to an acceptable
level. These actions and all other outputs from these
activities should be used to inform preparation
activities across resilience disciplines, to ensure that
plans, processes and structures are fit for purpose;
and where applicable specific response plans to
be developed for the most plausible risks (see also
findings FA2.KR5.2).
Scenario planning should be included in the Crisis
Management Plan to support HSE to prepare for
likely outcomes and mitigate subsequent impacts
during a response.