270+
Total titles covered
by 1xBet in 2018
Russian-speaking cybercrime in international markets. After
being blocked in Russia, shadow bookmakers shifted their focus to:


Latin America (mainly Brazil);


India;


Thailand.


Having polished their schemes in Russia (which has traditionally
been used as a testing ground for cybercrime), they started entering markets with similar characteristics: developing countries,
non-English speaking regions, populations with low financial literacy, and countries where sports streaming is highly popular.
This situation resulted in a symbiosis of gambling companies and
pirated content. Since 2015, 1xBet has allegedly sponsored content for 17 TV show voiceover studios (i.e. 80% of major voiceover
studios). 1xBet is one of the main sponsors of illegal distribution
of TV series in the post-Soviet region. What’s more, in 2018 1xBet
started creating content for other countries:
Total releases: over 500.
Total titles covered: over 270.
Distribution by language:


100% [6] of camrips are in English;


14% of camrips are in Spanish;


5% of camrips are in other languages (Tamil (predominantly
spoken in India’s South), Portuguese, Thai, Hindi, and others).


Evasion of technical blocking and lawful prosecution. Content
delivery networks (CDNs) play a key role in online piracy. They are
services that aggregate pirated content and optimize its delivery
to the customer. They supply up to 80% of illegal video streaming
services in Russia and other post-Soviet countries.
The characteristics of second-wave CDNs are:


frequent changes of technical domains and IP pools;


use of geographically distributed infrastructures;


duplicate and reserve content delivery channels, which are
usually rented from various Internet service providers.


These measures have made the currently enforced practices stipulated in anti-piracy legislation ineffective.
Exploitation of legal hosting services’ capacities. Group-IB studied the activities of several pirate groups. Analyses of their technical infrastructures revealed that they systematically used capacities belonging to Russian companies.
6  One camrip can be in several languages (e.g. in English and dubbed in Spanish).
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Executive Summary 7
Having analyzed the number of CDNs utilizing Mnogobyte’s infrastructure, we determined that the company Mnogobyte is likely
to be one of the leaders in providing hosting services for pirate
CDNs. [7] A copyright holder’s complaint about pirate services being
hosted by a hosting service will yield no results because unique
links created for each user individually cannot be opened by anyone else. This means that a hosting service whose servers are
used by pirate CDNs has all formal grounds to remove themselves
from handling the matter, absolve themselves from any responsibility, and continue to make money by providing a platform for pirate
businesses.