Trojanized trading program for macOS
For macOS users, Celas LLC also provided a native version of its trading app. A hidden “autoupdater”
module is installed in the background to start immediately after installation, and after each system reboot. It
https://securelist.com/operation-applejeus/87553/ 7/30
8/23/2018 Operation AppleJeus: Lazarus hits cryptocurrency exchange with fake installer and macOS malware - Securelist
keeps contacting the command and control (C2) server in order to download and run an additional
executable from the server. The communication conforms to the Windows version of the updater and is
disguised as an image file upload and download, while carrying encrypted data inside.
We have analyzed the following installation file:
MD5: 48ded52752de9f9b73c6bf9ae81cb429
File Size: 15,020,544 bytes
File Type: DMG disk image
Known file name: celastradepro_mac_installer_1.00.00.dmg
Date of creation: 13 July 2018
Once the Cellas Trade Pro app is installed on macOS, it starts the Updater application on the system load via
a file named “.com.celastradepro.plist” (note that it starts with a dot symbol, which makes it unlisted in the
Finder app or default Terminal directory listing). The “Updater” file is passed the “CheckUpdate” parameter
on start.
https://securelist.com/operation-applejeus/87553/ 8/30
i
Celas Trade Pro app plist fle (Apple Property List) i
The command-line argument “CheckUpdate” looks redundant from a code analysis perspective: there is no
other argument that the application expects. In the absence of all arguments, it doesn’t do anything and
quits. This may or may not be way to trick sandboxes that could automatically execute this trojan updater,
with no suspicious activity produced without such a “secret” extra argument. The choice of a benign string
such as “CheckUpdate” helps it to hide in plain sight of any user or administrator looking into running
processes.
The trojanized updater works similar to the Windows version in many ways. Both applications are
implemented using a cross-platform QT framework. Upon launch, the downloader creates a unique
identifier for the infected host using a “%09d-%06d” format string template. Next, the app collects basic
system information, which for macOS is done via dedicated QT classes:
Host name
OS type and version
System architecture
OS kernel type and version
The process of encrypting and transferring data is the same as in the Windows version. This information is
XOR-encrypted with hardcoded 16-byte static key “Moz&Wie#t/6T!2y”, prepended with GIF89a header
and uploaded to the C2 server via HTTP POST and the following URL:
https://www.celasllc[.]com/checkupdate.php
i
POST request template strings
The module relies on a hardcoded User-Agent string for macOS:
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_12_6) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/66.0.3359.139 Safari/537.36
Once the server replies, it checks the HTTP response code. HTTP response code 300 indicates that the
server has no task for the updater and the application terminates immediately. If the HTTP response is code
200, then the updater gets the data in the response, decodes it from base64 encoding and decrypts it using
RC4 with the hardcoded static key “W29ab@ad%Df324V$Yd“. It calculates the MD5 of the decoded and
decrypted data, which is compared to a value stored inside, to verify the integrity of the transferred file.
After that, the payload is extracted and saved to a hardcoded file location “/var/zdiffsec“, sets executable
permissions for all users and starts the app with another secret hardcoded command-line argument
“bf6a0c760cc642“. Apparently the command-line argument is the way to prevent the detection of its
malicious functionality via sandboxes or even reverse engineering. We have previously seen this technique
adopted by Lazarus group in 2016 in attacks against banks. As of 2018, it is still using this in almost every
attack we investigated.