Figure 3. Encrypted data within the decryptor driver
The data block has the following structure:
Figure 4. Encrypted data structure
The key from this block is used to create another key, 100h bytes in size, which is used to decrypt the
archive. The encryption is based on the well-known RC4 algorithm. If the archive size is equal to the
data size, it means that the data is not packed. However, if the two do not coincide, the encrypted
archive has to be unpacked.
The decrypted data is an infector driver which will inject a DLL into the svchost.exe user-mode process.
In order to launch the infector driver, the decryptor driver allocates memory, copies the decrypted code
to that memory area, remaps address offset fixups and passes control to it. The malicious DLL is
stored in the .bdata section of the infector driver. This data block has the same structure as that
described above. The infector driver locates the svchost.exe process and allocates memory in its
address space. The malicious DLL is then copied to this memory area and address offsets are
remapped according to the relocation table. The injected library’s code is then launched from kernel
mode as shown below:
addresses are given for the sake of reliability: if one server is down and the bot is unable to contact it,
the bot can attempt to connect to its owner using the backup address.
The bot sends a preformed http request to the C&C address; this is a string containing data which
identifies the infected machine. A sample string is shown below:
id=xCOMPUTERNAME_62CF4DEF&ln=ru&cn=RU&nt=2600&bid=3
The id parameter, which is the infected machine’s identifier, includes the computer name and the serial
number of the hard disk on which the C: drive is located. This is followed by operating system data:
system language, OS installation country and system build number. The build identifier for the bot (
‘build_id’ in the initial configuration options xml document) completes the string.
The format of the request string is used as confirmation that the request actually comes from the bot. In
addition, the C&C center also uses the user-agent header of the http request as a password of sorts.
If the C&C accepts the request, it responds with a bot configuration file which is also an encrypted xml
document. RC4 is also used to encrypt this file, with the infected machine’s identifier (the id parameter
of the request string, in the example above – xCOMPUTERNAME_62CF4DEF) serving as a key.
Here is an example of such instructions:
Figure 7. Configuration file – instructions from the C&C
The section tells the bot which modules are available on the owner’s server to set up a DDoS attack. If
the bot does not have a particular module or if a newer version is available on the server, the bot will
send a plug-in download request to the server, e.g.:
getp=http&id=xCOMPUTERNAME_62CF4DEF &ln=ru&cn=RU&nt=2600&bid=3
A plug-in is a DLL library, which is sent to the bot in an encrypted form. If the key used to encrypt a
plugin differs from the value of the id parameter, it will be specified in the field of the configuration file.
Once the plug-in DLL has been received and decrypted, it will be placed in the memory area allocated.
It is then ready to begin a DDoS attack as soon as the appropriate command is received.
Plug-ins will be regularly downloaded to infected machines: as soon as the malware writer updates
their attack methods, the Black Energy 2 bot will download the latest version of the relevant plugin.
Below is an example of a “ddos_start udp 80” command being carried out:
Figure 9. Creating a socket, UDP protocol
Figure 10-1. Sending data: sendto and the stack
Figure 10-2. Sending data: sendto and the stack
Figure 10-3. What data is sent: a random set of bytes
Explorer(Ver 1.0)” with an IWebBrowser2 interface. The Navigate method is called by the http_start
command with the parameter, resulting in the Internet Explorer(Ver 1.0) object navigating to the URL
specified. The Busy method is then used by the malicious program which waits until the request is
completed.
Figure 12-1. Creating a COM object
Figure 12-2. Pointer to CLSID
Figure 12-3. Pointer to the interface ID
Figure 13. Calling the Navigate method