The attachment
Figure 6
Emails targeting “Mr. X” (2011)
The sample email above contained a mali­
cious PDF attachment; however, Taidoor
doesn’t confine itself to PDFs. Taidoor has
been used in a wide variety of attachments,
including malicious Microsoft PowerPoint,
Word (.doc and .rtf file formats), and Excel
files. Malicious executables and even DLLs
(BID 47741) have been used as part of
recent attacks. In these cases the malicious
file is typically contained within an archive.
In more recent attacks Word documents
and PDFs have been the most popular at­
tack vectors. However the malicious attach­
ments constantly change, with new exploits
appearing regularly.
The malicious attachments have used a
large set of vulnerabilities over the years,
covering all main document formats. This
clearly indicates that this group has both
the focus and the intent to keep these
exploits relevant and up-to-date. The group
is clearly not afraid to try out new exploits.
The number utilized is remarkable.
Figure 7
Popularity of attachment type
(.dll, .scr, and .exe files are typically contained within archive files)


Microsoft PowerPoint Malformed Record Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 18382)


Microsoft Word Malformed Data Structures Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 21518)


Adobe Acrobat and Reader Multiple Arbitrary Code Execution and Security Vulnerabilities (BID 27641)


Microsoft PowerPoint Sound Data (CVE-2009-1129) Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 34839)


Adobe Reader and Acrobat ‘newplayer()’ JavaScript Method Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 37331)


Microsoft Excel ‘FEATHEADER’ Record Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 36945)


Adobe Flash Player CVE-2011-0611 ‘SWF’ File Remote Memory Corruption Vulnerability (BID 47314)


Multiple Microsoft Products DLL Loading Arbitrary Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 47741)


Adobe Acrobat and Reader CVE-2011-2100 DLL Loading Arbitrary Code Execution Vulnerability (BID 48252)


It is worth noting again that none of the vulnerabilities used by Taidoor are zero-day exploits. Taidoor simply
leverages publicly disclosed security bugs in popular applications and therefore relies on the target or targets to
be running unpatched software.
Figure 8 shows the email attachment
types chosen by attackers in 2011.
We can see a marked increase in the
use of vulnerable Word documents in
the run-up to the US-Taiwan Defense
Industry Conference in September
2011. The group probably found
more success with the Word exploit
for this period of the campaign.
However they switch to older vulner­
abilities if the new ones are proving
less successful, which was the case
for BID 47741.
Figure 8
Breakdown of malicious attachment types for 2011
(.dll, .scr, and .exe files are typically contained within archive files)
The goal of the email is to entice the
recipient into opening the malicious
attachment. The goal of the attach­
ment is to surreptitiously copy the
embedded Trojan onto Figure 9
the user’s computer and
Taidoor PDF attachment
launch it without drawing
attention to the fact that
the user has just been
compromised.
Taking the attachment
in the previous targeted
email, let’s examine what
happens if the malicious
document is opened.
The PDF is exploiting BID
47314, a vulnerability
in Adobe Reader that
leads to code execution
of the attacker’s choos­
ing. This code decrypts,
extracts, and executes
the embedded Taidoor
dropper. It also extracts
and presents the clean
PDF in figure 9, so as not
to alarm the user to any
unusual behavior.
The content in the PDF was scraped from an Associated Press article that started to appear on most major news
feeds the very day the email was sent: October 24, 2011.