Module Reflective Loading
One of the malware’s most interesting built-in function capabilities is reflective loading of custom DLLs. In order to
reflectively load a payload, the following 3-step procedure is performed using the “Command” and “Forward”
variables as arguments:

A random port is selected by the malware for future communications with the loaded module. The port’s
availability is checked by opening and closing a TCP socket over the loopback. After that, a target IP address is
extracted from the “Command” variable in the format of a 32 bit integer. The port and IP are concatenated to
form a struct which is later passed as an argument to the loaded module.

Figure 6 : Random port generation before reflective DLL loading
A shellcode is extracted from the “Command” variable and loaded to memory. This shellcode reflectively loads
a DLL passed in the “Forward” variable and returns a pointer to an initial method. If a shellcode and DLL were
previously loaded, the NodeIISWeb will use the previously exported method unless given a flag which forces a
reload and execution of the shellcode and DLL.
a. The custom shellcode that performs the necessary operations to enable execution of the loaded DLL, for
example relocations within the binary.
b. The shellcode returns a pointer to a specific exported function of the DLL by comparing the name of the
exported function to a hash value embedded within the shellcode. That way the threat actor controls which
function is returned by generating a custom shellcode for any needed function.
c. If no DLL was provided in the “Forward” variable – the shellcode is simply executed with a null-pointer as
argument, allowing execution of generic shellcodes.
Figure 7 : Reconstructed InitLoader method - Execution of shellcode to reflectively load payload DLL

Finally, the exported method is invoked using the structure created in step 1 as an argument.

11
Figure 8 : Reflective loading of payload DLL and invocation of the selected function
A sample shellcode was acquired alongside the malicious DLL that was loaded using that shellcode. The shellcode
which was found is a Position Independent Code (PIC) used to reflectively load “ExtDLL.dll” to memory by
allocating, writing and relocating any needed addresses to the appropriate allocated address. The exported
method returned by the shellcode is a method named “Hello” – which is the method used to execute the main
flow of “ExtDLL.dll”.