The most remarkable findings
In April, we published our report on TajMahal, a previously unknown APT framework that has
been active for the last five years. This is a highly sophisticated spyware framework that includes
backdoors, loaders, orchestrators, C2 communicators, audio recorders, keyloggers, screen and
webcam grabbers, documents, and cryptography key stealers; and even its own file indexer for
the victim’s computer. We discovered up to 80 malicious modules stored in its encrypted Virtual
File System – one of the highest numbers of plugins we have ever seen in an APT toolset. The
malware features its own indexer, emergency C2s, the ability to steal specific files from external
drives when they become available again, and much more. There are two different packages,
self-named ‘Tokyo’ and ‘Yokohama’ and the targeted computers we found include both packages.
We think the attackers used Tokyo as the first stage infection, deploying the fully functional
Yokohama package on interesting victims, and then leaving Tokyo in place for backup purposes.
So far, our telemetry has revealed just a single victim, a diplomatic body from a country in Central
Asia. This begs the question, why go to all that trouble for just one victim? We think there may be
other victims that we haven’t found yet. This theory is supported by the fact that we couldn’t see
how one of the files in the VFS was used by the malware, opening the door to the possibility of
additional versions of the malware that have yet to be detected.
On May 14, FT reported that a zero-day vulnerability in WhatsApp had been exploited, allowing
attackers to eavesdrop on users, read their encrypted chats, turn on the microphone and camera
and install spyware that allows even further surveillance, such as browsing through a victim’s
photos and videos, accessing their contact list and more. In order to exploit the vulnerability, the
attacker simply needs to call the victim via WhatsApp. This specially crafted call can trigger a
buffer overflow in WhatsApp, allowing an attacker to take control of the application and execute
arbitrary code in it. Apparently, the attackers used this method to not only snoop on people’s
chats and calls but also to exploit previously unknown vulnerabilities in the operating system,
which allowed them to install applications on the device. The vulnerability affects WhatsApp for
Android prior to 2.19.134, WhatsApp Business for Android prior to 2.19.44, WhatsApp for iOS
prior to 2.19.51, WhatsApp Business for iOS prior to 2.19.51, WhatsApp for Windows Phone prior
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ 1/8
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
to 2.18.348 and WhatsApp for Tizen prior to 2.18.15. WhatsApp released patches for the
vulnerability on May 13. Some have suggested that the spyware may be Pegasus, developed by
Israeli company NSO.