TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted
upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the
particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing
herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro
reserves the right to modify the contents of this document
at any time without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy
is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise
related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to
the original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
Published by
Trend Micro Research
Written by
Feike Hacquebord and Cedric Pernet
Stock image used under license from
Shutterstock.com
For Raimund Genes (1963-2017)
The oil and gas industry is faced with a multitude of concerns and
risks that may have significant impact on oil and gas production.
Extreme weather can have a substantial negative influence on oil
production and transportation, leading to high operating costs. Both
global and local politics have an effect on the pricing of oil per barrel,
thus affecting the profitability of oil companies. Physical attacks are
also a problem; just recently a drone attack on the world’s largest
refinery crippled 5% of the world’s global oil supply. [1]
All of these different risks have to be mitigated, and at first glance,
cyberattacks may seem less urgent to oil and gas companies.
However, because of increased automation, the growing connectivity
of computer networks, and the increased usage of cloud computing
services, companies are more and more exposed to cybersecurity
related risks. To create a comprehensive security system and protect
their assets on all fronts, oil and gas companies should be more aware
of current cyberthreats and what they can do to defend themselves
against these threats.
In this paper, we give an overview of known digital attacks against
the oil and gas industry and its supply chain. Current data shows
that persistent actors, using relatively simple methods, can cause real
harm to companies involved in this industry and even bring about
circumstances that can affect world economies.
Large-scale cyber intrusions on oil and gas companies are not theoretical scenarios; real-world strikes
have been causing damage for years. In August 2012, one of the biggest oil companies in the world
suffered from an expansive cyberattack. Tens of thousands of the company’s computer servers were
rendered unusable by the crippling wiper malware called Shamoon. [2] Although the supply of crude oil to
the world was not affected at the time, the Shamoon attack proved to be a real risk to world economies.
This watershed event was caused by destructive, yet relatively simple, malware.
Cyberthreats to oil companies seem to become more prevalent and urgent when political tensions rise. Oil
companies are targets of cyberattacks that are rooted in political agendas and geopolitical concerns. For
example, recent incidents of unrest in the Gulf Region have cascaded into cyberspace, i.e. the internet. [3]
There has been increased interest in malware attacks that target not only the military and defense industry
but also the oil and gas industry. This activity has been going on for almost a decade already.
Additional destructive attacks on the oil industry continued between 2012 and 2019 with variations of the
Shamoon malware and a destructive wiper variant of the so-called StoneDrill malware. In 2018, it was
reported that an Italian oil company suffered from a Shamoon wiper attack. [4] This time, a few hundred
computer servers were hit. Around the same time, a British oil company reported it had suffered from a
security breach caused by a variant of known malware. [5]
There are several advanced actor groups or advanced persistent threats (APTs) that target the oil and gas
industry. In this paper, we describe some of the attack methods of an actor group that is commonly referred
to as APT33 (also identified as Refined Kitten, Magnallium, and Elfin). APT33 is known to aggressively
target the oil and gas and aviation industries and their supply chains.
In the fall of 2018, we observed that a U.K.-based oil company had computer servers both in the U.K. and
India communicating with an APT33 command-and-control (C&C) server. Another European oil company
also suffered from an APT33-related malware infection on one of its servers in India for at least three
weeks in November and December 2018. We also found that for at least two years, APT33 used the
private website of a member of the national defense committee in the senate of a European country to
send spear-phishing emails to companies in the supply chain of oil products. Targets also included a
water facility that supplied potable water to a U.S. military base.
In this paper, we also include our findings on the multiple layers of obfuscation that APT33 puts up to run
C&C servers they use in extremely targeted malware campaigns against targets in the Middle East and
the U.S.
Pawn Storm [6] is another threat actor group that has targeted the oil and gas industry. In particular, we
have seen reconnaissance attacks on email and VPN servers of oil and gas companies originating from
this group.
4 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry