6.2 Appendix 2: JabberZeuS
The Business Club all began with the cybercriminal group Rock Gang, which operated from 2004 to 2008, and
whose members were of Ukrainian, Russian, Romanian and Moldovan nationality [18]. In 2008, lots of Rock Gang’s
members reportedly began to use Avalanche, an extensive global network hosting infrastructure harnessed by different groups of cybercriminals [55]. Among them, some, united within the Business Club, allegedly called on M.
Bogachev to help develop an enhanced version of ZeuS: JabberZeuS.
The new group formed around JabberZeuS includes some fifty individuals, whose privileges stem from their seniority and who work across several activities:


fraud: to participate in fraud activities, membership fees must be paid and a profit-sharing agreement signed;


recruitment of mules: some mules were located in two Chinese cities, adjacent to the Russian border, north of
Vladivostok [17]. In September 2010, the network of British JabberZeuS mules was arrested during Operation
Trident breACH [34] [18];


technical support;


provision of services: the group sold access to ZeuS (for USD 3,000 or 4,000 [20], not including modules) and to
other trojans. Accordingly, in October 2010, the FBI, collaborating with its British and Ukrainian counterparts,
dismantled a network of a dozen or so cybercriminals which had leveraged the malware Zeus to target US
bank accounts and siphoned around USD 70m off them [56, 57].


Identified group members include M. Bogachev, M. Yakubets (particularly in charge of recruiting mules), Y. Penchukov (alias tank), I. Klepikov (alias petr0vich), A. Bron (alias thehead), Y. Kulibaba (alias jonni), Y. Konovalenko
(alias jtk0) and A. Tikonov (alias kusanagi) [58]. The latter is believed to have developed Leprechaun, a system for
automating fraudulent transactions on Internet banking platforms, used by JabberZeuS. This system particularly
33 Function generally used by affiliates of the botnet ZeuS, which also propagated other malware as a second payload in order to ramp up their
earnings.
34 ACH refers to unauthorised fund transfers occurring in bank accounts.
17/07/2020 Page 18 sur 24
TLP:WHITE
TLP:WHITE
The malware Dridex: origins and uses
makes it possible to alter a victim’s banking transactions in real time [18]. Brian Krebs35 has identified disagreements within the group between M. Yakubets and M. Bogachev [35] [59].