2.4 Boot log acquisition and analysis
Any sufficiently sophisticated device needs to have a way to provide an insight for manufacturing engineers and
end users into its state as well as enable controlling its functioning. Such a way is usually implemented through
some sort of a console, allowing the operator to observe system messages as the device boots and to input
commands to control the boot process and device operation in general. Naturally, these messages provide a
wealth of useful information when investigating device workings and as such are important to capture.
For example, this allowed identification of the software version installed on each device, and was instrumental
in obtaining clean images from the vendor for further comparison.
Inventory information was also displayed during the boot, mainly consisting of serial numbers for various parts
comprising the device. This allowed us to verify the numbers against labels present on each part. While not a
direct indication of being counterfeit, a mismatch was indicative of the part being replaced.
Probably the most interesting aspect was the analysis of the inoperable device, which failed the platform
authentication procedure. From the very start of the boot:
It is worth noting that the device reported (some) digital signature verification passed, even though the boot
process resulted in a non-functional device. Similarly:
Note the two-pass loading process, with verification being performed separately.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 12
PUBLIC
However:
To summarize, the platform consisting of bootloaders, together with any potential pre-boot mechanisms
successfully authenticated the application image. However, the application then failed to authenticate the
platform. This seemed to correlate well with the high-level symptoms outlined before, which may have either
meant that the software image was patched covertly when loaded, or the patched version was already
provisioned; this would be easy to verify once images had been extracted from the devices.