Group A - Red Eyes
Group A is also known as Red Eyes, Group 123, ScarCurf, APT37, Reaper, and Ricochet Chollima. From the
analysis results, it was deemed that the main target of this group are individuals working in the fields related to North
Korea, such as North Korean defectors, North Korean human rights activists, North Korean researchers, and
journalists. In addition, documents related to the military were included in attack cases.
The names of the malicious Hangul file used in this attack group are as follows:
© AhnLab, Inc. All rights reserved                                              10
Targeted Attacks on South Korean Organizations
[Table 2] Malicious Hangul document file names used in attacks by Group A
This group created malware using the first EPS in September 2016.
The Hangul document, disguised as a North Korean New Year Address for January 2017, is in the form of an
embedded object. Information about malware creators can be gained using the document. For example, looking at
the file path ‘C:\Users\pad-2\AppData\Local\Temp\Hwp (3).exe’ for object insertion, we can find that the name of the
malware creator is pad-2. In particular, looking at the strings such as
‘\192.168.100.22\saggazi\Happy\Work\2016.8~2016.8.10~’, we can find the Korean word 'saggazi,' indicating that
the creator may be Korean or someone familiar with Korean. We are tracking malware produced by the same group
through related strings.
[Figure 14] Malware maker information contained in a malicious Hangul document file
In late October 2017, the same group used Microsoft Word's Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) document file for an
attack.
In April 2017, this attack group released a Hangul file with a malware to destroy hard disks. When the malware is
executed, it destroys the content of the hard disk, reboots, and displays only a message that reads 'Are you Happy?'.
© AhnLab, Inc. All rights reserved                                              11
Targeted Attacks on South Korean Organizations
[Figure 15] Booting screen after hard disk destruction
Malware of this attack group contains a character string that is a typical program database (PDB) file format. Through this PDBrelated string, we can guess the attacker's malware version and malware type.
[Figure 16] PDB contents by version
This attack group was known for an attack using a zero-day flash file at the end of January 2018. They are a
new group in the center of attention since a report was published on the group in February 2018.