A Suspicious Tip: “I Have Insider Information”
China Digital Times is a multi-language news portal that reports on political issues in China and aggregates Internet content that
has been censored in the country. It was founded by Xiao Qiang, a Professor at the University of California, Berkeley who has been
engaged in human rights activism since the 1989 Tiananmen Square Massacre.
On February 12, 2017, a CDT staff member received an email from a person claiming to be a UC Berkeley student with “insider
information” on claims made by 郭云贵 (Guo Yungui) on “hacker attacks” against the Chinese language news site Mingjing News.
The characters 郭云贵 (Guo Yungui) appears to be a slight variation of Guo Wengui (郭文贵), a Chinese billionaire who has gained
notoriety after voicing allegations that high ranking officials in the Communist Party of China are engaged in corruption. In January
2017 he had an interview with Mingjing News in which he made further unconfirmed allegations regarding official corruption and
abuse. Following this interview, the editor of Minjing News, claimed “several sites and channels of Mingjing were attacked by vicious
groups controlled by corrupt parties.”
The email sent to CDT included a link that directly referenced an IP address rather than a domain name. The staff member was
immediately suspicious and did not click on the link (see below):
Original Email Text
From: papa papa hellomice@mail.com
Date: February 13 2017
Subject: 我是伯克利加州大学的学生，我想认识一下您,我有爆料
To: [REDACTED]
我想向您爆料，关于郭云贵说中国黑客攻击明镜具体内幕，
hXXp://43.240.14.37/asdasdasadqddd12222111[.]php/article.asp=search.php
English Translation
From: papa papa hellomice@gmail.com
Date: February 13 2017
Subject: I am a student of UC Berkeley. I want to get to know you and I have some explosive
revelations for you
To: [REDACTED]
I’d like to reveal some detailed insider information on Guo Yungui’s claims that Chinese hackers attacked Mingjing News
website.hXXp://43.240.14.37/asdasdasadqddd12222111[.]php/article.asp=search.php
Three days later, the staff member received another email offering insider information on the Mingjing attacks. This email included a
link that, at first glance, appeared to be the domain of China Digital Times, but with a slight misspelling. Instead of
chinadigitaltimes.net the link sent was chinadagitaltimes[.]net with an added ‘a’ instead of an ‘i’ in the word digital. A day
after this email was sent, other staff members at CDT received similar emails with the same link (see below).
Original Email Text
From: sda daaa aisia.anminda8@mail.com
Date: February 14 2017
Subject: 您好，我想向您爆料相关内幕
To: [REDACTED]
您好：
我有关于中国时代日报上的一篇文章最新的消息，中国黑客攻击的后续事件以及最近明镜网被攻击的内幕信息
文章地址:hXXp://www.chinadagitaltimes[.]net/2016/07/chinese-hackers-blamed-multiple-breaches-fdic/文中写的与我这边得到
的消息有些差异点
English Translation
From: sda daaa aisia.anminda8@mail.com
Date: February 14 2017
Subject: hi, I'd like to offer you some insider information.
To: [REDACTED]
I have the latest information on an article published by China Daily. It’s about follow-ups on the incident of Chinese hackers
and some insider information on the recent attacks against Mingjing News.
Link to the article.
hXXp://www.chinadagitaltimes[.]net/2016/07/chinese-hackers-blamed-multiple-breaches-fdic/The information presented in the
article is slightly different from the information I know.
The link connects to a web page that mirrors content from the real CDT website displaying an article related to hacker groups from
China (see Figure 1 for comparison of the real and fake content).
Figure 1: Comparison of the real and fake CDT webpages.
Visually, the content is identical. The only substantive difference between the real and fake content is a few lines of javascript code
(see Figure 2 ).
Figure 2: Snippet of Javascript code in the source of the fake China Digital Times webpage.
The function of this code is to pop a window on the screen that says “您的登录已失效,请重新登录!” [Your login has expired, please
log in again!] (see Figure 3 ).
Figure 3: Screenshot of the fake China Digital Times webpage and the popup message displayed.
If the OK button is clicked, the user is forwarded to what appears to be a WordPress login page (see Figure 4 ).
Figure 4: Fake WordPress Login page
Credentials entered into this page are sent to the operators. Following entry of credentials, users are forwarded to the real CDT site.
The real CDT website runs on WordPress, and therefore the purpose of this phishing campaign is to steal credentials to the actual
CDT website and gain access. The operators customized a fake domain to host real content and developed custom phishing pages
for stealing the WordPress credentials demonstrating a substantial level of effort.