Network Accesses: Entry Points to Japanese Networks for Ransomware Attackers
Initial network accesses, offered on underground forums, can serve as entry points for
ransomware operators and other malicious actors looking for a foothold from where
they can move laterally and deploy ransomware or steal intellectual property. Over the
last three months, KELA observed several accesses to Japanese organizations being sold
in the darknet. While overall numbers are lower than other countries like the US,
considering the scale of initial network accesses’ sales, each of these accesses can
be turned into millions of ransom demanded by buyers who would manage
to leverage them to infect the victims with ransomware.
The most dangerous offer appears to be related to a remote code execution vulnerability
in the Japanese Ministry of Justice network. According to a threat actor who posted the
offer for 210,000 JPY, exploiting this vulnerability could grant NT Authority/System
privileges, meaning a high level of permissions.
Another access on sale during the last months allegedly belonged to a “Japan ship
inspection network” and had domain admin level privileges, which enables attackers to
perform malicious actions on behalf of the targeted network’s administrator. It was
offered for 157,000 JPY. Interestingly, one week later, the Sodinokibi (REvil)
ransomware gang attacked a victim which appears to be the same company based on
the description on the victim’s website — “certification body of ship equipment.”
However, it’s not known if the two incidents were related. Ransomware operators
usually wait for negotiations deadlines to expire before exposing a victim
on their blogs, so it’s hardly possible they would manage both to attack the
victim and lose patience for one week.
6/13
Access to the Japanese “ship inspection network” offered for sale
Sodinokibi’s victim
Among other offers, KELA observed access to a Japanese medical university being
offered for 105,000 JPY. The example highlights that despite the pandemic and
the disapproval of some members of the underground community, many
actors continue to target the healthcare industry, as well as the education
sector.
7/13