Commercial Support to Government CNO R&D
China’s long term investment in its high technology sectors is paying dividends for the
PLA as they have access to increasing numbers of domestic firms able to design,
build, and service advanced IT systems in support of PLA C4ISR and CNO
requirements. The ability to recruit these employees into militia units is only one
benefit that the government is deriving from the growth of the IT sector in China.
Some firms, such as Huawei, are well known in the West and occupy significant
market share in both China and abroad, but a host of other smaller firms like Venus
Technologies, also provide increasingly sophisticated platforms and technology to the
PLA and government security organizations.
Huawei is a well established supplier of specialized telecommunications
equipment, training and related technology to the PLA that has, along with
others such as Zhongxing, and Datang, received direct funding for R&D on
C4ISR systems capabilities. All of these firms originated as state research
institutes and continue to receive preferential funding and support from the
PLA. [93]
ZTE Corp, another of China’s large telecommunications manufacturers, and
Huawei, also provide certification training and related engineering training to
PLA personnel assigned to communications and IW related positions,
according to provincial level Communist Party military newspapers. [94]
Civilian IT companies have provided personnel to staff IW militia units that are
tasked with both CNA and CND missions during wartime and extensive CNE
missions during peacetime. [95]
Venus Technologies Inc, which has close ties to the hacker groups XFocus
and NSFocus, is also a well known provider of information security and
computer network operations expertise to the PLA and dozens of other entities
93 Evan Medeiros, Roger Cliff, Keith Crane, James Mulvenon, A New Direction for China’s
Defense Industry, RAND Corp, 2005, p. 213.
94 OSC, CPP20090430682010, “Network ‘Spiderman’ – Remembering Wang Jianguo, Class 6
NCO from Certain Main Communications Station,” by Gong Yun, Xia Hui, Zheng Xisheng,
Guangzhou Zhanshi Bao, March 5, 2009, p.4.
95 OSC, CPP20031002000138, “Building a High-quality Militia Information Technology
Element,” by Ye Youcai and Zhou Wenrui, PLA Guangzhou Garrison District, Academy of
Military Science, Guofang, September 15, 2003.
49
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
in the PRC government. Venus’ customer list published on their Website
includes all PLA service branches, all PLA Staff departments (i.e. the General
Staff, Armaments, Logistics, and Political Departments) and the defense
consortiums China North Industries Group (NORINCO, a well documented
arms exporter), China Aviation Industry Corp I (AVIC I), China Aerospace
Science and Technology Group (CASIC), China Shipbuilding Industry
Corporation, and the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Base, China’s oldest space
launch facility located in Inner Mongolia. [96]
To date, the evidentiary record regarding the PLA’s or other state security groups’
use of Chinese hackers to conduct network exploitation activities against US
networks remains highly anecdotal. Western media reports that claim that the PRC
government has recruited an “internet army” from among the millions of Chinese
hackers, are spurious at best. The limited reporting available from open sources,
however, does suggest that some precedent exists for state security organizations to
seek computer network operations expertise from individuals with sophisticated
hacker skill sets. How these organizations are using the talent they recruit, the
numbers of individuals involved in possible state sponsored CNO activities, and how
these individuals are integrated—if at all—into ongoing cyber intelligence operations
all bear careful scrutiny and continued research.
96 List is available on Venus Tech’s website located at: http://www.venustech.com.cn/aboutitem/189
50
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation