Summary
A journalist at China Digital Times (CDT), (an independent Chinese and English language news portal), receives an email from a
source claiming to have a tip on a sensitive story: “I have insider information that is different from what you’ve published”. The email
includes a link to an article from the news portal. Clicking on the link displays the article with a pop-up message asking the journalist
to enter their username and password in prompt designed to look like a WordPress login page. What is normally a routine
interaction for the journalist has become increasingly threatening. The tip from the source is actually an attempt to steal the
journalist’s WordPress credentials used to manage and publish content to the news portal.
The rouse used in the phishing email was clever, but it did not work. The journalist was immediately suspicious of the phishing
attempts and shared them with researchers at the Citizen Lab to analyze, which led to the discovery of a wider campaign targeting
Chinese language news sites using various tactics including reconnaissance, phishing, and malware. The campaign used domains
and copied content that masqueraded as Epoch Times, Mingjing News, HK01, and Bowen Press. It is not clear if these other news
groups were directly targeted. These organizations often report on issues that are politically sensitive to the government of China
and their websites are blocked in the country. Our analysis of the infrastructure used in this campaign reveals connections to
previous malware operations targeting Tibetan journalists and the Thai government. These incidents includes targets that are
generally within the geopolitical interest of the government of China. However, this report does not conclusively attribute the
campaign to a publicly reported threat actor or state sponsor.
There are numerous incidents of journalists and news organizations reporting on China being targeted by digital espionage
operations. In 2009, as part of the GhostNet investigation, Citizen Lab found that China-based operators had infiltrated the mail
servers of Associated Press offices in London and Hong Kong. Another investigation in 2009, by Nart Villeneuve and Greg Walton
uncovered a targeted malware campaign against China-based journalists working at Reuters, the Straits Times, Dow Jones,
Agence France Presse, and Ansa. In recent years other major news organizations, including the The New York Times, the Wall
Street Journal, and the Washington Post, have reported intrusions of their networks and systems by China-based operators. In each
incident, the operators were suspected to be sponsored by the government of China with the motivation of gathering information on
China-related reporting that the newspapers were covering.
These historical incidents and the campaign we analyze in this report serve as a general reminder that the media are targets for
digital espionage and, as a result, news organizations and journalists need to reflect on their business practices and behaviours and
adopt a more systematic approach to information security.
This report proceeds in five parts outlined below:
Part 1: Phishing Operation Targeting China Digital Times
This section describes phishing messages sent to China Digital Times and our subsequent investigation into the tactics and server
infrastructure used in the operation.
Part 2: Uncovering a Wider Campaign
This section reveals how the operation against China Digital Times was part of a wider campaign of phishing, reconnaissance, and
malware operations that used domains and content made to mimic four other Chinese-language news organizations, Epoch Times,
Mingjing News, HK01, and Bowen Press.
Part 3: Malware Operation
This section describes a malware operation that used content and domains made to mimic Chinese-language news organizations
HK01 and Bowen Press. The malware operation made efforts to evade detection and frustrate analysis. The operation combined
obfuscated, packed executables and custom shellcode with an additional step of using compromised servers to host the malicious
payload. We identify the payload as NetWire, a commodity remote access trojan that is not commonly observed in Asia and
typically seen used in cybercrime activities.
Part 4: Campaign Connections
This section links infrastructure used in the campaign against Chinese-language news site to previous malware campaigns
targeting a Tibetan radio station and the Thai government. It also shows the same certificate information used to sign the malware
in this campaign was used by other malware operations targeting gaming companies.
Part 5: Discussion and Conclusions
This section summarizes the characteristics of the campaign and how it reflects wider information security challenges for news
organizations and journalists.