As China forges its role as one of the great world powers, it continues to rely upon a blast furnace of cyber espionage operations in order to acquire foreign technologies and intellectual property.
Barr went on to assert that the DOJ believes these cyber operations are tied to the
Chinese government. He said, “With respect to remote computer intrusions, for example,
the [DOJ] indictment of APT 10 hackers in December 2018 outlined a global campaign,
associated with the Chinese Ministry of State Security, targeting intellectual property
and confidential business and technology information…” (Department of Justice, 2020).
While Chinese IP theft is now a story old enough for the history books, there continue
to be new chapters to add with new lessons to learn for security teams and the
organizations they serve.
In this report, BlackBerry researchers examine the activities of five related adversarial
groups who have spent the better part of the last decade successfully targeting
organizations in cross-platform attacks while operating relatively, if not entirely
undetected in multiple strategic and economic espionage operations.
The report details how this quintet of threat actor groups have been focused on an
often-overlooked platform: Linux [®] servers that comprise the backbone of the majority
of large data centers responsible for the some of the most sensitive enterprise network
operations. And it further reveals the link between a previously unidentified Linux
malware toolset and one of the largest Linux botnets ever discovered.
The newly discovered Linux malware toolset included two kernel-level rootkits that
rendered executables extremely difficult to detect, making it highly probable that the
number of impacted organizations is significant and the duration of the infections
lengthy. This report provides analysis of the attacks, the toolset, the rootkits, the other
malware, and the infrastructure involved.
The research also provides analysis of attacks designed to elude defenders through
the use of Windows [®] malware that uses adware code-signing certificates, a tactic
that the attackers hope will increase infection rates as any red flags are dismissed as
just another blip in a constant stream of adware alerts. This report examines multiple
samples of malware accompanied by the adware code-signing certificates.
The researchers also look at the targeting of another often-neglected attack vector: the
mobile devices that increasingly make up a significant portion the enterprise network
perimeter. A previous report from BlackBerry [®] researchers, titled Mobile Malware and
APT Espionage: Prolific, Pervasive, and Cross-Platform (BlackBerry, 2019), examined
how APT groups have been leveraging mobile malware in combination with traditional
desktop malware in ongoing cross-platform surveillance and espionage campaigns.
This report continues the analysis of this trend with an examination of some newly
identified Android [™] malware.
The report also delves into the curious case of a mobile remote access trojan (RAT) that
was developed by an APT group nearly two years prior to the commercial availability
of a popular remote administration penetration testing tool that has strikingly similar
code structure and characteristics, raising questions about the origins of each.
This report provides a threat intelligence assessment of the strategic and tactical
use of novel malware and attack techniques employed by several threat actors. The
conclusions drawn here represent the best judgments of the researchers based on
data examined.