PROMETHIUM and NEODYMIUM: Parallel zero- day attacks targeting individuals in Europe
Windows Defender ATP
Microsoft proactively monitors the threat landscape for emerging threats. Part
of this job involves observing the activities of targeted activity groups, which are
often the first ones to introduce new exploits and techniques that are later used
by other attackers. The previous two volumes of the Microsoft Security
Intelligence Report explored the activities of two such groups, code-named
STRONTIUM and PLATINUM, which used previously unknown vulnerabilities and
aggressive, persistent techniques to target specific individuals and institutions—
often including military installations, intelligence agencies, and other
government bodies.
This volume chronicles two activity groups, code-named PROMETHIUM and
NEODYMIUM, both of which target individuals in a specific area of Europe.
Although most malware today either seeks monetary gain or conducts
espionage for economic advantage, both of these activity groups appear to
seek information about specific individuals.
In May 2016, both PROMETHIUM and NEODYMIUM were observed to launch
attack campaigns. These campaigns used completely distinct infrastructure and
primary malware, which indicated a lack of association at the operational level.
However, the similarity in the campaigns’ victim locale, timing, and use of the
same zero-day exploit prior to public disclosure strongly indicates that the
activity groups may be related at a higher organizational tier.
Microsoft is sharing information about these groups to raise awareness of their
activities, and to help individuals and organizations implement existing
mitigation options that significantly reduce risk from these attack groups and
other similar groups.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  21
Activity Group Profile: PROMETHIUM
Campaign summary: PROMETHIUM is an activity group that has been active
since at least 2012. In 2016, an attack campaign by this group was recorded in
early May that made use of an exploit for CVE-2016-4117, a vulnerability in
Adobe Flash Player, which at the time was both unknown and unpatched.
Adobe promptly and publicly acknowledged the zero-day vulnerability and
pushed a security update.