New DNS hijacking technique
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2019/07/sea-turtle-keeps-on-swimming.html 1/5
7/10/2019 Talos Blog || Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: Sea Turtle keeps on swimming, finds new victims, DNS hijacki…
Talos now has moderate confidence that the threat actors behind Sea Turtle have been
using another DNS hijacking technique. This new technique has been used very
sparingly, and thus far have only identified two entities that were targeted in 2018,
though we believe there are likely more.
This new technique once again involved modifying the target domain's name server
records to point legitimate users to the actor-controlled server. In this case, the actor
controlled name server and the hijacked hostnames would both resolve to the same IP
address for a short period of time, typically less than 24 hours. In both observed cases,
one of the hijacked hostnames would reference an email service and the threat actors
would presumably harvest user credentials. One aspect of this technique that makes it
extremely difficult to track is that the actor-controlled name servers were not used across
multiple targets — meaning that every entity hijacked with this technique had its own
dedicated name server hostname and its own dedicated IP address. Whereas previously
reported name server domains such as ns1[.]intersecdns[.]com were used to target
multiple organizations.
In one case, a private organization primarily used a third-party service as their
authoritative name server. Then, for a three-hour window in January 2018, their name
server records were changed to a name server hostname that mimicked a slightly
different version of the organization's name. During that three-hour window, the actor
controlled IP address hosted three hostnames, the two actor-controlled name servers
and the webmail hostname. This would allow the threat actors to perform a man-in-the
middle (MitM) attack, as outlined in our previous post, and harvest credentials. This
technique was also observed against a government organizations in the Middle East and
North African region.