Introduction
CopyKittens is a cyberespionage group that has been operating since at least 2013. In November 2015,
ClearSky and Minerva Labs published [1] the first public report exposing its activity. In March 2017, ClearSky
published a second report [2] exposing further incidents, some of which impacted the German Bundestag. In this
report, Trend Micro and ClearSky expose a vast espionage apparatus spanning the entire time the group has
been active. It includes recent incidents as well as older ones that have not been publicly reported; new
malware; exploitation, delivery and command and control infrastructure; and the group's modus operandi.
We dubbed this activity Operation Wilted Tulip
Targetting
CopyKittens is an active cyber espionage actor whose primary focus appears to be foreign espionage on
strategic targets. Its main targets are in countries such as Israel, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, The United States,
Jordan, and Germany. Occasionally individuals in other countries are targeted as well as UN employees.
Targeted organizations include government institutions (such as Ministry of Foreign Affairs), academic
institutions, defense companies, municipal authorities, sub-contractors of the Ministry of Defense, and large
IT companies. Online news outlets and general websites were breached and weaponized as a vehicle for
watering hole attacks.
For example, a malicious email was sent from a breached account of an employee in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, trying to infect multiple targets in other government
organizations worldwide. In a different case, a document likely stolen from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign
affairs was used as decoy. In other cases, Israeli embassies were targeted, as well as foreign embassies in
Israel.
Victims are targeted by watering hole attacks, and emails with links to malicious websites or with malicious
attachments. Fake Facebook profiles have been used for spreading malicious links and building trust with
targets. Some of the profiles have been active for years.
Malware
CopyKittens use several self-developed malware and hacking tools that have not been publicly reported to
date, and are analyzed in this report: TDTESS backdoor; Vminst, a lateral movement tool; NetSrv, a Cobalt
Strike loader; and ZPP, a files compression console program. The group also uses Matryoshka v1, a selfdeveloped RAT analyzed by ClearSky in the 2015 report, and Matryoshka v2 which is a new version, albeit with
similar functionality.
The group often uses the trial version of Cobalt Strike [3], a publicly available commercial software for "Adversary
Simulations and Red Team Operations." Other public tools used by the group are Metasploit, a well-known
free and open source framework for developing and executing exploit code against a remote target machine;
Mimikatz, a post-exploitation tool that performs credential dumping; and Empire, "a PowerShell and Python
post-exploitation agent." For detection and exploitation of internet-facing web servers, CopyKittens use Havij,
Acunetix and sqlmap.
A notable characteristic of CopyKittens is the use of DNS for command and control communication (C&C) and
for data exfiltration. This feature is available both in Cobalt Strike and in Matryoshka.
Most of the infrastructure used by the group is in the U.S., Russia, and The Netherlands. Some of it has been
in use for more than two years.
1 www.clearskysec.com/report-the-copykittens-are-targeting-israelis/
2 www.clearskysec.com/copykitten jpost/
3 https://www.cobaltstrike.com
Page 3 of 48
©All rights reserved to ClearSky cyber security and Trend Micro, 2017