Outlook
We identified three victims of cyberespionage operations since
late 2017 across the managed IT service provider, retail, and legal
sectors. The targeted sectors vary significantly, indicating a wide
scope of targeting for the group. We assess with high confidence
that the attacks were conducted by Chinese MSS threat actor APT10,
based on the evidence outlined in this report, summarized below:

The use of a variant of the Trochilus malware. While the

variant has not been noted publicly previously, Trochilus
is widely used by APT10.

The use of legitimate binaries to sideload malicious DLLs

that decrypt and decompress shellcode configuration files
containing a Trochilus payload.

The use of Notepad++ updater (filename “gup.exe”) to load

malicious DLL (libcurl.dll) in the deployment of the APT10
backdoor, UPPERCUT.

Extensive use of command-line tools including, but not

limited to, Mimikatz, cURL for Windows, BITSAdmin, and
WinRAR, to perform actions on-host.

The targeting of a Norwegian MSP, which enabled potential

access to an extensive customer base. We believe that the
APT10 targeting of Visma is an extension of their 2017 Cloud
Hopper operation (which victimized some of the world’s
largest MSPs) and has continued into late 2018.

The unauthorized access to Citrix remote desktop clients at

Visma using stolen credentials occured at times
corresponding to Tianjin working hours (GMT +8).
We believe APT10 is the most significant known Chinese
state-sponsored cyber threat to global corporations. Their
unprecedented campaign against MSPs, alleged to have
included some of the largest MSPs in the world, in order to
conduct secondary attacks against their clients, grants the
Chinese state the ability to potentially access the networks of
hundreds (if not thousands) of corporations around the world.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-0206 | 24
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
This campaign brings to light further evidence supporting
the assertions made by the Five Eyes nations, led by the U.S.
Department of Justice indictment against APT10 actors outlining the
unprecedented scale of economic cyberespionage being conducted
by the Chinese Ministry of State Security. Crucially, the variety
of businesses targeted prove that these campaigns are being
conducted against corporations across the commercial spectrum,
aimed at undermining international norms in trade to erode the
competitive advantage of companies that have invested heavily in
patented technology.
This report, alongside the plethora of other reporting on APT10
operations, acutely highlights the vulnerability of organizational
supply chains. Often, third parties in the supply chain are less likely
to adopt high-end, expensive security measures, and therefore offer
an attacker a convenient access vector to target interconnected
organizations. Also, the targeting of cloud providers exploits the
trust companies place in the security of the cloud services they use.
Based on publicly available information, we assess that this intrusion
was conducted by the group that is known as APT10. However,
during the course of this investigation, we have had privileged
conversations that lead us to believe that in the future, portions of
what is now known as APT10 will be recategorized as a new group.
There is insufficient data at this time to make that distinction.