Executive Summary
2018 was a year that has brought significant changes in the cyberthreat landscape. Those changes had as
source discrete developments in motives and tactics of the most important threat agent groups, namely
cyber-criminals and state-sponsored actors. Monetization motives have contributed to the appearance of
crypto-miners in the top 15 threats. State-sponsored activities have led to the assumption that there is a
shift towards reducing the use of complex malicious software and infrastructures and going towards low
profile social engineering attacks. These developments are the subject of this threat landscape report.
Developments have been achieved from the side of defenders too. Through the emergence of active
defence, threat agent profiling has led to a more efficient identification of attack practices and malicious
artefacts, leading thus to more efficient defence techniques and attribution rates. Initial successes
through the combination of cyberthreat intelligence (CTI) and traditional intelligence have been achieved.
This is a clear indication about the need to open cyberthreat intelligence to other related disciplines with
the aim to increase quality of assessments and attribution. Finally, defenders have increased the levels of
training to compensate skill shortage in the area of cyberthreat intelligence. The vivid interest of
stakeholders in such trainings is a clear indicator for their appetite in building capabilities and skills.
Recent political activities have underlined the emergence of various, quite novel developments in the
perceived role of cyberspace for society and national security. Cyber-diplomacy, cyber-defence and cyberwar regulation have dominated the headlines. These developments, when transposed to actions, are
expected to bring new requirements and new use cases for cyberthreat intelligence. Equally, through
these developments, existing structures and processes in the area of cyberspace governance will undergo
a considerable revision. These changes will affect international, European and Member States bodies. It is
expected that threat actors are going to adapt their activities towards these changes, affecting thus the
cyberthreat landscape in the years to come.
In summary, the main trends in the 2018’s cyberthreat landscape are:
- Mail and phishing messages have become the primary malware infection vector.


- Exploit Kits have lost their importance in the cyberthreat landscape.


- Cryptominers have become an important monetization vector for cyber-criminals.


- State-sponsored agents increasingly target banks by using attack-vectors utilised in cyber-crime.


- Skill and capability building are the main focus of defenders. Public organisations struggle with staff

retention due to strong competition with industry in attracting cybersecurity talents.
- The technical orientation of most cyberthreat intelligence produced is considered an obstacle towards

awareness raising at the level of security and executive management.
- Cyberthreat intelligence needs to respond to increasingly automated attacks through novel

approaches to utilization of automated tools and skills.
- The emergence of IoT environments will remain a concern due to missing protection mechanisms in

low-end IoT devices and services. The need for generic IoT protection architectures/good practices
will remain pressing.
- The absence of cyberthreat intelligence solutions for low-capability organisations/end-users needs to

be addressed by vendors and governments.
All these trends are included in the content of the ENISA Threat Landscape 2018 (ETL 2018). Identified
open issues leverage on these trends and propose actions to be taken in the areas of policy, business and
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019
research/education. They serve as recommendations and will be taken into account in the future
activities of ENISA and its stakeholders. An overview of identified points is as follows:
Policy Conclusions:


The EU will need to develop capabilities (human and technical) to address the needs for CTI
knowledge management. EU Member States are requested to introduce measures to increase its
independence from currently available CTI sources (mostly from outside the EU) and enhance the
quality of CTI by adding a European context.


As CTI is perceived as a public good, capabilities will be required to offer “baseline CTI” to all
interested organisations. EU governments and public administrations are requested to share
“baseline CTI”, covering sectorial and low-maturity needs of organizations.


Regulatory barriers to collect CTI exists and should be removed. Coordinated efforts among EU
Member States is required in the collection and analysis of CTI, as crucial activity in the
implementation of proper defence strategies.


Business conclusions


Businesses will need to work towards making CTI available to a large number of stakeholders, with
focus on the ones that lack technical knowledge. The security software industry needs to research and
develop solutions using automation and knowledge engineering, helping end-users and organizations
mitigating most of the low-end automated cyberthreats, with minimum human intervention.


Businesses will need to take into account emerging supply chain threats and risks. The technology
industry needs to introduce qualitative measures into its production processes, perform end-to-end
security assessments and adhere to certification schemes.


Businesses will need to bridge the gap in security knowledge among the operated services and endusers of the service. The consumption of CTI knowledge is a major step to achieve this goal.


Technical/research/educational conclusions


The ingestion of CTI knowledge needs to be enlarged to include accurate information on incidents and
information from related disciplines. CTI vendors and researchers have to find ways to enlarge the
scope of CTI, while reducing necessary manual activities.


CTI knowledge management needs to be the subject of standardisation efforts. Of particular
importance are the developments of standard vocabularies, standard attack repositories, automated
information collection methods and knowledge management processes.


Research needs to be conducted to better understand attack practices, malware evolution, malicious
infrastructure evolution and threat agent profiling. Advances in those areas may significantly reduce
exposure to cyberthreats and advance CTI practices.


Much more training offerings need to be developed in order to satisfy the current market needs in CTI
training.


In the last chapter of this document (see chapter 6), a number of important issues leading to the above
conclusions are mentioned, providing more elaborated conclusions. It is proposed to consider these
issues and identify their relevance by reflecting them to the own situation and elaborate on it accordingly.
The figure below summarizes the top 15 cyberthreats and trends in comparison to the landscape of 2017.
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019
|Assessed TrendsTop Threats 20172017|AssessedTop Threats 2018Trends 2018|Change inranking|
|---|---|---|
|1. Malware 2. Web Based Attacks 3. Web ApplicationAttacks 4. Phishing 5. Spam 6. Denial of Service 7. Ransomware 8. Botnets 9. Insider threat 10. Physicalmanipulation/ damage/theft/loss 11. Data Breaches 12. Identity Theft 13. InformationLeakage 14. Exploit Kits 15. Cyber Espionage|1. Malware 2. Web Based Attacks 3. Web Application Attacks 4. Phishing 5. Denial of Service 6. Spam 7. Botnets 8. Data Breaches 9. Insider Threat 10. Physical manipulation/damage/ theft/loss 11. Information Leakage 12. Identity Theft 13. Cryptojacking 14. Ransomware 15. Cyber Espionage|→ → → → ↑ ↓ ↑ ↑ → → ↑ → NEW ↓ →|
|Legend:Trends: Declining, Stable, Increasing Ranking:↑Going up,→ Same,↓ Going down|Legend:Trends: Declining, Stable, Increasing Ranking:↑Going up,→ Same,↓ Going down|Legend:Trends: Declining, Stable, Increasing Ranking:↑Going up,→ Same,↓ Going down|
Table 1- Overview and comparison of the current threat landscape 2018 with the one of 2017
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019