2. BACKGROUND
The Dukes, also known as APT29 and Cozy Bear, is an infamous cyberespionage group active since at least
2008. In particular, it is known for being one of the adversaries to have breached the Democratic National
Committee during the 2016 US presidential election [1] . It was even featured in a joint report issued by the
FBI and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), as part of malicious cyber-activities the report dubbed
Grizzly Steppe [2] . That report was published in 2017 and describes malicious activities that occurred around
the presidential election of 2016.
This section is a summary of the group’s previously documented activities to refresh the reader’s memory,
since the last related publication dates from almost three years ago. Our most recent discoveries are detailed
in the subsequent sections of this white paper.
2.1 Timeline
Even though the group’s activities are believed to have started in 2008, the first public report was released
in 2013 with the analysis of MiniDuke by Kaspersky [3] . Over the next two years, multiple reports dissected
the Dukes’ arsenal, including a comprehensive summary by F-Secure of the group’s activities from 2008
to 2015 [4] .
One of the most recent attacks that we can link to the Dukes is the January 2017 phishing attempt against
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Labour Party and the Armed Forces of Norway [5] . Since then, most security
experts have believed the Dukes went dark or completely changed their arsenal to pursue their mission.
6 Operation Ghost The Dukes aren’t back – they never left
In November 2018, a strange phishing campaign hit dozens of different organizations in the United States,
including government agencies, and think tanks. The attack leveraged a malicious Windows shortcut
(a ~~.lnk~~ file) that bore similarities to a malicious shortcut used by the Dukes in 2016. However, that earlier
sample was available in a public malware repository for many years, allowing another actor to easily conduct
a false-flag operation. In addition, there is no evidence that any custom malware used only by the Dukes
was employed during this attack. From FireEye’s detailed analysis of the attack [6], it was not possible
to make a high-confidence attribution to this threat actor.
Figure 1 summarizes the important events of the Dukes history. Some activities related to Operation Ghost
are also presented to help understand the overlap between all the events.