~~People~~
Helping people adapt to new ways of working
is key to any successful transformation. While
organizations are empowering people to work
securely when, where, and how they want, we have
found the most successful are the ones who are also
empathetic to the end-user experience.
The previous sections of this chapter have presented
a view of the threat landscape across the six
foundational pillars of Zero Trust, with key steps
we recommend taking to protect them. However,
it is imperative to remember that every step we
take to implement Zero Trust strategies impacts the
people within the organization—and that successful
implementation depends as much on them as it
does on the systems and tools we put in place. How
companies engage with their workforces around
remote work and security matters. We conclude
the chapter with a discussion about people, the
human element of any enterprise, and ultimately our
greatest asset.
Some guidance about insider
risk in the hybrid workplace
As described in this report’s sections on Zero Trust, it
is possible to give employees seamless information
access while mitigating the risk of inadvertent leaks.
Regarding more malicious insider threats, using a
framework of common factors and patterns typically
seen helps to enable proactive detection. Microsoft’s
Insider Risk program has adapted numerous
Insider threat attack path [ Note 105 ]
preventative and detective controls that decrease
risk through all stages of the insider threat attack
path. In general, we should assume that the threat of
loss to the organization or its stakeholders increases
as an attack progresses down the path. Preventative
controls such as awareness trainings that instruct the
organization where to report insider threat concerns,
or controls designed to limit risky behavior (such as
limiting the ability for those leaving the organization
to share files) are both initiatives that Microsoft has
undertaken to mitigate risk. As organizations work
toward increasingly advanced capabilities in the
preventative control space, appropriate stakeholders
from across the organization should always be
consulted. For example, before implementing any
preventative controls, verify with the business that
protections still enable employees and contractors
to perform their legitimate business activities.
Insider threat attacks share several common factors and patterns, which can be described in a critical-path
approach. Identifying indicators across phases of the critical path can help to enable more proactive detection.
Note 105 Adapted from Eric Shaw and Laura Sellers, Application of the Critical-Path Method to Evaluate Insider Risks, Studies in Intelligence, 59,2. 2021
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
106
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction A Zero Trust approach for securing hybrid work Identities Devices/Endpoints Applications Network Infrastructure Data People
The Insider Risk program leverages a variety of
artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML)
and signature- or rule-based detections, including
those from our Insider Risk Management solution,
to accomplish detection goals. While AI and ML are
incredible tools that help to decrease some of the
noise associated with traditional rule-based alerts, it
is critical that the organization has the appropriate
people with the “tribal knowledge” of business
acceptable behavior in the correct roles to create
trustworthy AI and ML models. This human input
takes standard supervised or unsupervised ML a
step further in predicting which alerts are the most
actionable for incident response teams. Lack of this
knowledge can create a pool of noisy alerts with
limited investigative value.
Key considerations for insider threat detections
|AI and ML are notalways the answer|Rules and signature-based detections are better suited for some use cases|
|---|---|
|Data is key|An efective AI or ML solution requires understanding and acquiring the data todevelop, train, and enrich the solution, as well as track performance metrics|
|You still need people|Human review of alerts and identifcation of tuning opportunities is critical –continue to “shift left”|
|Cybersecurity talentpool is evolving|While security experts are still important, data scientists also bring valuableskills to the table|
AI and ML are not always the answer
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
107
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction A Zero Trust approach for securing hybrid work Identities Devices/Endpoints Applications Network Infrastructure Data People
Learn more:
To Thrive in Hybrid Work, Support Flexibility in Work
Styles (microsoft.com) (9/9/2021)
Insider risk: Protect company data with insider
goodwill — Quartz (qz.com) (June 2021)
Data security: Eliminating insider risk in the hybrid
workplace — Quartz (qz.com)
Learn about insider risk management - Microsoft 365
Compliance Microsoft Docs | (3/17/2021)
Reducing Code of Conduct and Regulatory
Compliance Violation Risks - Microsoft Tech
Community (5/12/2021)
Fostering safe communication at work - The
Washington Post (11/17/2020)
Microsoft Customer Story-Avanade uses a light
touch—and Microsoft Insider Risk Management—
to lessen insider risk (3/24/2021)
The empathy imperative
Flexible work is here to stay and with that comes
several challenges and stressors. Teams have
become more siloed this year, and digital exhaustion
is a real and unsustainable threat. One in five global
survey respondents say their employer doesn’t care
about their work-life balance. [ Note 106 ] Fifty-four percent
feel overworked. Thirty-nine percent feel exhausted.
And trillions of productivity signals from Microsoft
365 quantify the precise digital exhaustion workers
are feeling.
A positive corporate culture mitigates risk
A recent study out of CyLab, Carnegie Mellon
University’s Security and Privacy Institute, found
that negative deterrence actions like employee
constraints, monitoring, and punishment don’t work
to reduce insider risk. [ Note 107 ] What does work: putting
employee engagement, connection, and well-being
front and center.
To support the well-being of your people, it’s
important to create channels and mechanisms to
listen to their concerns, providing an opportunity
to give and receive feedback and embrace
collaboration. Taking a holistic, purpose-built
approach that can pull signals together into a
cohesive view across an organization provides a
better understanding of the relevant trends in the
organization and better risk reduction. For this
reason, organizations are turning to ML to uncover
hidden signs of workplace risk such as inappropriate
communications, threatening behavior, or actions
that would negatively impact employees and the
business. By identifying patterns and violations,
technology can flag risk while intervention is still
possible, while continuing our commitment to end
user privacy.
Assume positive intent; mistakes happen.
Note 106 Work Trend Index: Microsoft’s latest research on the ways we work Note 107 How a positive hybrid work culture can help you to mitigate insider risk - Microsoft Security (5/17/2021)
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
CHAPTER 6