Other interesting discoveries
Expanding our research on the exploit targeting CVE-2021-1732, originally discovered by
DBAPPSecurity Threat Intelligence Center and used by the Bitter APT group, we
discovered another possible zero-day exploit used in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) region.
Interestingly, the exploit was found in the wild as part of a separate framework, alongside
CVE-2021-1732 as well as other previously patched exploits. We are highly confident that
this framework is entirely unrelated to Bitter APT and was used by a different threat
actor. Further analysis revealed that this Escalation of Privilege (EoP) exploit has
potentially been used in the wild since at least November 2020. Upon discovery, we
reported this new exploit to Microsoft in February. After confirmation that we were
indeed dealing with a new zero-day, it received the designation CVE-2021-28310.
Various marks and artifacts left in the exploit mean that we are also highly confident that
CVE-2021-1732 and CVE-2021-28310 were created by the same exploit developer that we
track as “Moses”. “Moses” appears to be an exploit developer who makes exploits
available to several threat actors, based on other past exploits and the actors observed
using them. To date, we have confirmed that at least two known threat actors have
utilized exploits originally developed by Moses: Bitter APT and Dark Hotel. Based on
similar marks and artifacts, as well as privately obtained information from third parties,
we believe at least six vulnerabilities observed in the wild in the last two years have
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 8/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
originated from “Moses”. While the EoP exploit was discovered in the wild, we are
currently unable to directly tie its usage to any known threat actor that we are currently
tracking. The EoP exploit was probably chained together with other browser exploits to
escape sandboxes and obtain system level privileges for further access. Unfortunately, we
weren’t able to capture a full exploit chain, so we don’t know if the exploit is used with
another browser zero-day, or coupled with exploits taking advantage of known, patched
vulnerabilities.
In another, more recent investigation into the surge of attacks by APT actors against
Exchange servers following the revelation of ProxyLogon and other Exchange
vulnerabilities, we took note of one unique cluster of activity. It attracted our attention
because the actor behind it seemed to have been active in compromising Exchange
servers since at least December 2020, all the while using a toolset that we were not able to
associate with any known threat group. During March, several waves of attacks on
Exchange servers were made public, partially describing the same cluster of activity that
we had observed. One of them, reported by ESET, contained an assessment that the actor
behind this activity had access to the Exchange exploits prior to their public release,
which aligns with our observations of the early activity of it last year. That said, none of
the public accounts described sightings of the full infection chain and later stages of
malware deployed as part of this group’s operation. Adopting the name Websiic, given
publicly to this cluster of activity by ESET, we reported the TTPs of the underlying threat
actor. Namely, we focused on the usage of both commodity tools like the China Chopper
webshell and a proprietary .NET backdoor used by the group, which we dubbed
“Samurai”, as well as describing a broader set of targets than the one documented thus
far.
On 15 April, Codecov publicly disclosed that its Bash Uploader script had been
compromised and was distributed to users between the 31 January and the 1 April. The
Bash Uploader script is publicly distributed by Codecov and aims to gather information
on the user’s execution environments, collect code coverage reports, and send them to the
Codecov infrastructure. As a result, this script compromise effectively constitutes a
supply-chain attack. The Bash uploader script is typically executed as a trusted resource
in development and testing environments (including as part of automated build
processes, such as continuous integration or development pipelines); and its compromise
could enable malicious access to infrastructure or account secrets, as well as code
repositories and source code. While we haven’t been able to confirm the malicious script
deployment, retrieve any information on the compromise goals, or identify further
associated malicious tools yet, we were able to collect one sample of a compromised Bash
uploader script, as well as identify some possibly associated additional malicious servers.
An e-mail sent by Click Studios to its customers on 22 April informed them that a
sophisticated threat actor had gained access to the Passwordstate automatic updating
functionality, referred to as the in-place upgrade. Passwordstate is a password
management tool for enterprises, and on 20 April, for a period of about 28 hours, a
malicious DLL was included in the software updates. On 24 April, an incident
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 9/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
management advisory was also released. The purpose of the campaign was to steal
passwords stored in the password manager. Although this attack was only active for a
short time, we managed to obtain the malicious DLLs and reported our initial findings.
Nevertheless, it’s still unclear how the attackers gained access to the Passwordstate
software to begin with. Following a new advisory published by Click Studio on 28 April,
we discovered a new variant of the malicious DLL used to backdoor the Passwordstate
password manager. This DLL variant was distributed in a phishing campaign, most likely
by the same actor.
A few days after April’s Patch Tuesday updates from Microsoft (13 April), a number of
suspicious files caught our attention. These files were binaries, disguised as “April 2021
Security Update Installers”. They were signed with a valid digital signature, delivering
Cobalt Strike beacon modules. It is likely that the modules were signed with a stolen
digital certificate. These Cobalt Strike beacon implants were configured with a hardcoded
C2, “code.microsoft.com”. Contrary to a (now redacted) publication from the Qihoo 360
team revolving around this activity, we can confirm that there was no compromise of
Microsoft’s infrastructure. In fact, an unauthorized party took over the dangling
subdomain “code.microsoft.com” and configured it to resolve to their Cobalt Strike host,
setup around 15 April. That domain hosted a Cobalt Strike beacon payload served to
HTTP clients using a specific and unique user agent. According to Microsoft and the
initial Qihoo notification, the impact in this case was very limited and didn’t affect
unsuspecting visitors to this website because of the required unique user agent.
On April 14-15, Kaspersky technologies detected a wave of highly targeted attacks against
multiple companies. Closer analysis revealed that all these attacks exploited a chain of
Google Chrome and Microsoft Windows zero-day exploits. While we were not able to
retrieve the exploit used for Remote Code Execution (RCE) in the Chrome web-browser,
we were able to find and analyze an Escalation of Privilege (EoP) exploit used to escape
the sandbox and obtain system privileges. The EoP exploit was fine-tuned to work against
the latest and the most prominent builds of Windows 10 (17763 – RS5, 18362 – 19H1,
18363 – 19H2, 19041 – 20H1, 19042 – 20H2) and it exploits two distinct vulnerabilities
in the Microsoft Windows OS kernel. On April 20, we reported these vulnerabilities to
Microsoft and they assigned CVE-2021-31955 to the Information Disclosure vulnerability
and CVE-2021-31956 to the EoP vulnerability. Both vulnerabilities were patched on June
8, as a part of the June Patch Tuesday. The exploit-chain attempts to install malware in
the system through a dropper. The malware starts as a system service and loads the
payload, a “remote shell”-style backdoor which in turns connects to the C2 to get
commands. So far, we haven’t been able to find any connections or overlaps with a known
actor. Therefore, we are tentatively calling this cluster of activity PuzzleMaker.
On April 16, we began hearing rumors about active exploitation of Pulse Secure devices
from other researchers in the community. One day prior to this, the NSA, CISA, and FBI
had jointly published an advisory stating that APT29 was conducting widespread
scanning and exploitation of vulnerable systems, including Pulse Secure. For this reason,
initial thoughts were that the two were related; and these were just rumors circulating the
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 10/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
community about old activity that was being brought to light again. Following this, we
were able to at least confirm that the initial rumors were part of a separate set of activities
that had occurred between January and March and were not directly related to the
advisory mentioned above. This new activity involved the exploitation of at least two
vulnerabilities in Pulse Secure; one previously patched and one zero-day (CVE-202122893). We also became aware of affected organizations that were notified by a third
party that they were potentially compromised by this activity. After exploitation, the
threat actor proceeded to deploy a simple webshell to maintain persistence. On May 3,
Pulse Secure delivered “out-of-cycle” update and workaround packages to provide a
solution for the multiple vulnerabilities.
Cooperating with Check Point Research, we discovered an ongoing attack targeting a
small group of individuals in Xinjiang and Pakistan, in regions mostly populated by the
Uyghur minority. The attackers used malicious executables that collect information about
the infected system and attempt to download a second-stage payload. The actor put
considerable effort into disguising the payloads, whether by creating delivery documents
that appear to be originating from the United Nations using up-to-date related themes, or
by setting up websites for non-existing organizations claiming to fund charity groups. In
our report, we examined the flow of both infection vectors and provided our analysis of
the malicious artifacts we came across during this investigation, even though we were
unable to obtain the later stages of the infection chain.