The variants
The Gh0st Rat source code (version 3.6) is freely available on the Internet, something that
has made it quite popular and sparked a multitude of modifications. The resulting trojan can
be hard to recognize as Gh0stRat, as attackers ditch various parts of the code that they don't
need and add other functionality. In addition, the trojan is packaged in different ways –
standalone, glued together with other files, included in self extracting archives. It is
frequently obfuscated and compressed.
As a result of all this, antivirus naming is variable, to put it mildly. Most antivirus detections
today are automatically generated, resulting in names thought out by machines. Quick, but
containing information only machines find interesting.
The most stable indicator of being faced with a Gh0stRat is its network communication. It is
well documented and quite distinctive, as it always begins with a “magic word” which in its
default configuration is “Gh0st” – thus Gh0st Rat. Below is a typical packet (content data
blurred)
Fig 1 The fields are magic identifier (‘Gh0st’), size of packet, size of uncompressed packet, and lz-compressed data
containing information about the compromised computer.
This magic tag is very easy to spot in network traffic, so the bad guys have come up with a
countermeasure. They use other magics. I searched our in-house Malware Analyzer G2
(MAG2) pcaps for network traffic that matched the Gh0st packet format, and this showed
about 50 different magics from the last few months. There are many more in existence –
some are shown in Table 2, but as we had no traffic data on these, they were not
investigated.
Table 1. Gh0st magic tags used in this paper
© N o r m a n A S A 2 0 1 2 P a g e  |  4
Table 2. Known Gh0st magics not investigated in this paper.
The length of the magic is by default 5 bytes, but this is not the case for all variants. In Table
1 there are magics with non-standard length – “Spidern” and “W0LFKO” – and we have seen
others that were not included in this investigation, like “DrAgOn” and “QQ_124971919”.
The Spidern variant is non-standard in another way as well. It does not compress its network
traffic, something most other Gh0st do. However, when looking at the code in the
disassembler IDA Pro, the code relationship is clearly visible.
Fig 2 Spidern vs Gh0st comparison
© N o r m a n A S A 2 0 1 2 P a g e  |  5