Russian Invasion of Georgia Russian Cyberwar on Georgia
10 November, 2008
Regular updates can be found on the Georgia Update website:
www.georgiaupdate.gov.ge


INTRODUCTION ..............................................................................................2


BACKGROUND ON CYBERWARFARE.......................................................2


RUSSIA’S ONLINE WAR ON GEORGIA: FIRST STRIKE ..............................3


CYBER BLOCKADE.........................................................................................5


SITES PROVIDING DDOS ATTACK TOOLS .................................................5


PART OF THE INFORMATION WAR .............................................................7


RUSSIAN BUSINESS NETWORK......................................................................8


THE 27 AUGUST ATTACK...............................................................................9


CONCLUSION......................................................................................................10
APPENDIX: Articles About Cyberwar on Georgia .........................................11
1

INTRODUCTION

The Russian invasion of Georgia was preceded by an intensive build up
of cyberattacks attempting to disrupt, deface and bring down critical
Georgian governmental and civilian online infrastructure. These attacks
became a massive assault on the eve of the invasion which resulted in
the blocking, re-routing of traffic and control being seized of various
sections of Georgian cyberspace. The attack marks a new phase in the
history of warfare, being the first case in which a land invasion was coordinated with an orchestrated online cyber-offensive. This offers
crucial lessons for strategists and planners whilst providing vital
information about how the Russian Federation is developing its
offensive capacities on the internet.
The campaign has been reported in the media, with wide coverage
suggesting the campaign was a spontaneous outburst of popular
feeling in Russia lead by independent hackers. However, as this report
suggests, the offensive was too large, coordinated, and sophisticated
to be the work of independent hackers; the evidence leads by-andlarge to the Russian Business Network (RBN) in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Whilst only a criminal investigation can directly prove the involvement
of the Kremlin, both experts and commentators have accused
Moscow of sponsoring the attacks as their magnitude requires the
involvement of the kind of resources only a state-sponsor can provide.

BACKGROUND ON CYBERWARFARE

Cyberattacks are becoming an increasingly established and virulent
form of warfare in the early Twenty-First Century. High technology and
online skills are now available for rent to a variety of customers,
including private individuals and terrorist organizations, and can
potentially destabilize a country’s whole economy and crucial security
infrastructure. Cyberwarfare has found its primary state-sponsor in the
Russian Federation, which is widely suspected of having played a
leading role in the first large scale cyberattack on a NATO member
state last year.
In the spring of 2007 government computers in Estonia came under
sustained attack from cyberterrorists following the decision taken by
Estonian officials to move a statue placed commemorating a Red
Army soldier that died fighting the Nazis, to the military cemetery in the
capital Tallinn. The event roused emotions and led to large scale
protests by the Russian minority. It was then that the Estonian
Government’s online networks came under massive assault using
2
Distributed Denial-Of-Service (DDoS) assaults on its infrastructure. The
attacks, which flooded computers and servers, blocking legitimate
users were described as ‘crippling’ by experts, owing to Estonia’s high
dependence on information technology. Commentators have pointed
out that the assault had very serious consequences for Estonia`s banks
and airports. Consequences similar in effect to a full scale missile strike.
This provided vital lessons for Estonia and NATO and has led to the
development of a cutting edge cyberwarfare institute in Tallinn.

RUSSIA’S ONLINE WAR ON GEORGIA: FIRST STRIKE

In August 2008, cyberwar associated with the Russian Federation struck
once more, this time against Georgia. The DDoS attacks began in the
weeks running up to the outbreak of the Russian invasion and
continued after the Kremlin announced that it had ceased hostilities on
12 August. Georgian claims have been confirmed by Tom Burling, an
executive of Tulip Systems, a U.S. Internet firm, which took over hosting
of the web sites for Georgia's government agencies during the conflict.
In a recent interview Burling said its experts had worked frantically to
curtail the damage from the hackers, remarking that "They have been
attacking Georgia from a cyber standpoint since July." Some of the
Western sources confirm this claim.
On 20 July the Shadowserver Foundation published news about the
serious attack against the website of the President of Georgia: “For
over 24 hours the website of President Mikhail Saakashvili of Georgia
(www.president.gov.ge) has been rendered unavailable due to a
multi-pronged distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.”
Computerworld, 21 July: “The Web site for the president of Georgia was
knocked offline by a distributed denial-of-service (DDOS) attack over
the weekend, yet another in a series of cyberattacks against countries
experiencing political friction with Russia.”
New York Times, 12 August: “ Weeks before bombs started falling on
Georgia, a security researcher in suburban Massachusetts was watching an
attack against the country in cyberspace.”
The Russian invasion of Georgia was preceded by a cyber attack on
Georgia’s Internet facilities. A large number of Georgia’s Internet
servers were seized and placed under external control from late
Thursday, 7 August, whereas Russia’s invasion of Georgia officially
commenced on Friday, 8 August. Also, much of Georgia’s traffic and
access was taken under unauthorized external control at the same
time that this first large scale attack occurred.
The defacement of President Mikheil Saakashvili web site
president.gov.ge with the screen-shot provided below which operated
as a moving slideshow was part of the initial phase of the attack. What
3
followed were large numbers of DDoS against the site designed to
prevent the Georgian government from getting its message across to
the general population and international media during this critical
time.
Dancho Danchev is an independent security consultant and cyber
threats analyst, with extensive experience in open source intelligence
gathering, malware and E-crime incident response. As an expert in the
field, he views the defacement attacks as clearly being Kremlin linked
and not undertaken by independent or un-coordinated attackers.

“What am I trying to imply? It smells like a three letter intelligence
agency’s propaganda arm has managed to somehow supply
the creative for the defacement of Georgia President’s official
web site, thereby forgetting a simple rule of engagement in such
a conflict - risk forwarding the responsibility of the attack to each
and every Russian or Russian supporter that ever attacked
Georgian sites using publicly obtainable DDoS attack tools in a
coordinated fashion.”

An example of Russian efforts to shut the mouse of Georgian media is
the story of the Georgian news agency GHN. The first attack against
the agency’s website occurred in August 2008. Another wave of cyber
attacks started on 8 September. As a result, the GHN news agency
website had been paralyzed for 2 weeks. Another Georgian media
website that came under consistent cyber attacks after the end of the
armed conflict is www.apsny.ge – website of the Georgia-Online news
agency. It is interesting to note that Russian efforts to prevent Georgian
4
Internet media resources from disseminating information continued
even after the war.

CYBER BLOCKADE

The Russian assault on Georgian cyberspace was intensely coordinated and directed out of St. Petersburg, inside the territory of the
Russian Federation. The primary orchestrator was the Russian Business
Network (RBN) which conducted the cyber-blockade so that all
Georgian Internet traffic was going through Russia, denying Georgia its
internet independence. Computers in Georgia showed that an assault
was clearly taking place, which is presented here as evidence of
Russian sponsored cyber-terrorism:

Two trace routes for the web site mfa.gov.ge, that of the Georgian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were showing:

(a) From US - Ge = Blocked via TTnet Turkey
(b) From Ukraine - Ge = available & slow; not accessible, cached
(forged page) now only via redirect through Bryansk.ru

Other Georgia government websites such as mod.gov.ge, the
website of the Georgian Ministry of Defense and the web site
president.gov.ge, the web site of the Georgian Presidency showed

(c) From US - Ge = Blocked via TTnet Turkey
(d) From Ukraine - Ge = Blocked via TTnet Turkey
By examining Internet routes before and after the beginning of the war,
it is clear that they were altered either legally or illegally, blocking
traffic in and out of Georgia. Some of those routers are known to be
under control of the Russian Business Network (RBN). This can be
demonstrated via a comparison of route configuration before and
after the war.

SITES PROVIDING DDOS ATTACK TOOLS

Here we can provide clear evidence of co-ordination and a full list of
targets the cyber-terrorists had selected taken from the Russian hosted
web site stopgeorgia.ru (which also appears as stopgeorgia.info a
redirected page). This site provided the necessary attack tools for the
cyber assault against Georgia for hackers. As we can see the screenshot shows that mostly .ge web sites are listed for priority attacks.
However - also targeted for assault is the US embassy in Tbilisi. This web
site, as seen before, is an open site to attract future FSB cyber warriors.
The following evidence below shows how these sites can be traced
back to the Russian Business Network (RBN) in ST. Petersburg and other
cybercriminal locations.
5


The information site Stopgeorgia.ru which provided information and
tools for independent hackers to attack Georgian sites was hosted
by AS36351 Softlayer of Plano Texas. This is a well known location
that is associated with Atrivo and Intercage malware hosting
connectivity, which is highly disruptive to online service.


The information site Stopgeorgia.info was hosted by AS28753
NETDIRECT in Frankfurt, Germany as well as in AS12578 APOLLO
LATTELEKOM APOLLO in Latvia.


The link back to the Russian Business Network (RBN) was provided by
the clues left in the registration, which reads as:

Sponsoring Registrar: EstDomains, Inc.
Registrant: Domain Manager, Protect Details, Inc, Street1: 29
Kompozitorov St., Saint Petersburg, RU, Phone:+7.8129342271

In summary, 36 important web sites were identified as targets for
hackers, including the US and UK Embassies in Tbilisi, Georgian
Parliament, Georgian Supreme Court, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, various
news agencies and other media resources, the Central Election
Commission, and many others.
6
Due to efforts of many IT specialists in Internet hosting routing
companies, normal traffic was mostly resumed after the initial strikes.
Most critical websites were hosted outside of Georgia.

PART OF THE INFORMATION WAR

To help to make a final judgment regarding the cyberwar against
Georgia these two declarations from Russian officials can help us to
evaluate how Moscow thinks in regard to online warfare. The Russian
State Duma deputy and member of the Security Committee Deputy
Nikolai Kuryanovich stated in 2006 within a formal Russian
parliamentary letter of appreciation to hackers who had taken down
several Israeli web sites:

"In the very near future many conflicts will not take place on the
open field of battle, but rather in spaces on the Internet, fought with
the aid of information soldiers, that is hackers. This means that a

7
small force of hackers is stronger than the multi-thousand force of
the current armed forces."
Should we interpret this declaration as a statement of intent, or merely
a prediction? A few days ago, the Editor of the Russian Online journal
cybersecurity.ru, made a similar statement that provides insight into the
Russian war aims:

“Cyber-attacks are part of the information war, making your enemy
shut up is a potent weapon of modern warfare.”

Clear examples that such thinking is being applied as guiding principles
of Russian strategy as part of the intense information-war taking place
can be drawn from the second wave of attacks that showed up from
Russian Business Network (RBN) server range. This time the weapon was
a new campaign purporting to come from the BBC that mocked
Georgia's President and spread as a new virus.
The malware from various locations caused the virus to be delivered
from a single site, (IP address: 79.135.167.49).
The name of the malware is "name.avi.exe", and as of September 2008,
only FOUR out of 36 anti-virus products could detect it. The Russian
Business Network (RBN) had created a highly virulent strain designed to
act as a propaganda weapon against Georgia.

RUSSIAN BUSINESS NETWORK

The individual, with direct responsibility for carrying out the cyber "first
strike" on Georgia, is a RBN operative named Alexandr A. Boykov of
Saint Petersburg, Russia. Also involved in the attack was a programmer
and spammer from Saint Petersburg named Andrey Smirnov. These
men are leaders of RBN sections and are not "script-kiddies" or
"hacktivists," as some have maintained of the cyber attacks on Georgia
– but senior operatives in positions of responsibility with vast
background knowledge.
Intelligence can suggest further information about these individual
cyber-terrorists. According to Spamhaus SBL64881, Mr. Boykov operates
a hosting service in Class C Network 79.135.167.0/24. It should be noted
that the pre-invasion attacks emanated from 79.135.167.22, clearly
showing professional planning and not merely ‘hacktivism.’ Due to the
degree of professionalism and the required massive costs to run such
operations, a state-sponsor is suspected. Further information gathered
also links the RBN to known disruptive websites.

The IP addresses of the range, 79.135.160.0/19 are assigned to
Sistemnet Telecom to provide services to companies who are
classified as engaging in illicit activities such as credit card fraud,
malware and so on.

8


79.135.160.0/19 Sistemnet Telecom and AS9121 TTNet (Turkey) are
associated with AbdAllah_Internet which is linked with cybercrime
hosting such as thecanadianmeds.com. These are known Russian
Business Network routes.


THE 27 AUGUST ATTACK


The last large cyberattack took place on 27 August. After that, there
have been no serious attacks on Georgian cyberspace. By that is
meant that minor attacks are still continuing but these are
indistinguishable from regular traffic and can certainly be attributed to
regular civilians.
On 27 August, at approximately 16:18 (GMT +3) a DDoS attack against
the Georgian websites was launched. The main target was the
Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The attacks peaked at approx 0,5 million network packets per second,
and up to 200–250 Mbits per second in bandwidth (see attached
graphs). The graphs represent a 5-minute average: actual peaks were
higher.
9
The attacks mainly consisted of HTTP queries to the http://mfa.gov.ge
website. These were requests for the main page script with randomly
generated parameters. These requests were generated to overload
the web server in a way where every single request would need
significant CPU time.
The initial wave of the attack disrupted services for some Georgian
websites. The services became slow and unresponsive. This was due to
the load on the servers by these requests.
As you see from the graphs above the attacks started to wind down
after most of the attackers were successfully blocked. The latest attack
may have been initiated as a response to the media coverage on the
Russian cyber attacks.
CONCLUSION
The information presented in here catalogues and explains the historic
first major use of cyberattacks as a weapon of war during the Russian
aggression against Georgia. Considering that this is the second Russiansponsored cyber-attack in just over a year, as well as the alarming fact
that the US Embassy in Tbilisi was listed for assault by cyberterrorists,
NATO member states as well as NATO aspirant countries need to be on
full alert for future Russian aggression against critical online
infrastructure.
10