Telegram ‘grabber’ tool
Through our regular scanning for Yellow Garuda infrastructure, PwC analysts identified an
open directory located at 138.201.145[.]183 containing several compressed archives
associated with late 2021 Yellow Garuda activity.
Each of the RAR archives contained a copy of a tool named
NewTelegram.LocalGrabber.Sqlite.UI.Win.exe, together with the tool’s component parts,
and exfiltrated victim data. In total there were seven sets of victim data on the server, six of
which were outputs of the Telegram ‘grabber’ tool, and one of which was almost certainly
the result of data exfiltrated by mobile malware. Although it is unclear what malware was
used, we note that the type of data captured is in line with the capabilities of
PINEFLOWER, an Android malware previously attributed to Yellow Garuda . 1
These archives had filenames referencing Solar Hijri calendar dates indicating that the
activity took place between 7th September and 11th October 2021, when converted to the
Gregorian calendar. The activity suggests domestic targeting as all victim mobile numbers
contained the Iranian country code and Farsi was the main language seen in victim
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/cybersecurity/cyber-threat-intelligence/old-cat-new-tricks.html 1/18
7/26/22, 11:03 AM Old cat, new tricks, bad habits
databases (as part of Telegram group names or in exfiltrated messages). From the data
exfiltrated, it was also apparent that some of victims were associates of each other, where
two pairs of victims were contacts of another victim on Telegram. We also observed that
two of the victims likely had links to the Iranian music industry.
Figure 1 - Contents of 138.201.145[.]183
The Telegram grabber tool is written in C++ and uses the open source Telegram Database
Library (TDLib), a cross-platform Telegram client typically used to create custom apps for
the platform . It has been designed to exfiltrate information from a victim’s Telegram 2
account. This includes messages and associated media, group memberships and contact
data.
SHA-256 7709a06467b8a10ccfeed72072a0985e4e459206339adaea3afb0169bace024e
Filename NewTelegram.LocalGrabber.Sqlite.UI.Win.exe
File type Win32 EXE
File size 5,423,104 bytes
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/cybersecurity/cyber-threat-intelligence/old-cat-new-tricks.html 2/18
7/26/22, 11:03 AM Old cat, new tricks, bad habits
Compilation
timestamp
2062-01-30 02:30:48
In order to access the victim’s account, the threat actor needs to enter a login code which is
issued by Telegram as part of its authentication process. The code is sent either to the
victim’s Telegram account, or via SMS to the victim’s phone . This means that the threat 3
actor needs to have access to a victim’s active Telegram session, either via a phone or
desktop, or otherwise be able to access their SMS messages, for example via mobile
malware. As can be seen in Figure 2, the victim’s phone number is required upon opening
the tool in order to send the authentication code.
Figure 2 – GUI to enter victim’s phone number
If the victim has enabled two-step verification, an additional password is needed. Where
this is unknown, it can be reset using a recovery email if one has been previously setup.
The tool has options to view the password hint and send an access code via the victim’s
recovery email address, which the threat actor would need to access in order to proceed.
The existence of this option indicates that the threat actor, at least in some cases, is likely
to have access to the victim’s email account. This aligns with Yellow Garuda’s known
tactics, which include extensive credential harvesting via dedicated phishing sites.
Once authenticated, the operator is presented with multiple options to choose the type of
data to download. This includes the ability to select a date range for the download of the
different types of Telegram chat messages. For groups, the tool attempts to grab details on
the participants as well as whether or not the victim is an administrator. The tool is also
able to download data relating to the victim’s profile and their contacts, including their
names, phone numbers, usernames and profile pictures.
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/cybersecurity/cyber-threat-intelligence/old-cat-new-tricks.html 3/18
7/26/22, 11:03 AM Old cat, new tricks, bad habits
Figure 3 – Metadata accessed for each contact
The exfiltrated data is stored within a SQLite database and also in JSON format. For
attachments sent or received through chats, there are options to choose specific file
formats to download. These pertain to common video, audio, document, binary and
compressed file extensions. In addition to being able to exfiltrate data, the threat actor also
has the ability to delete messages from the victim’s account.
We found 15 additional samples of the tool on an online multi-antivirus scanner which
share the same filename (NewTelegram.LocalGrabber.Sqlite.UI.Win.exe) and TypeLib ID
(7bb2c20c-740e-498b-8dd6-9c2ff8ad9572) as the sample we analysed. The TypeLib ID is
a unique GUID created by Visual Studio when a new project is created, thus indicating 4
that all of the samples originated from the same project. The additional samples were all
uploaded within a 31 day window between January and February 2021 and contained
similar functionality to the one we analysed. The main difference was the presence of a web
request function that appeared to be used in a testing capacity. Given the clustered times of
submission and the presence of the web request test method, we assess it is likely these
samples were submitted by the threat actor itself in a testing capacity.