Summary and Insights
About the Attacker

We estimate that ‘Dream Job’ operation is the primary campaign of Lazarus in 2020: in the past

two months the North Korean group’s activity was uncovered in two reports reviewing its
attack methods campaigns targeting job seekers. This attack infrastructure is used primarily
for social engineering frauds tailored to the victim’s background. We believe that it is
supported by tens of activists maintaining and infrastructure and relations with the victims.

Dual mission - Theft and Espionage: One of the top identifiers of Lazarus is their dual attack

mission – money theft and espionage. This modus operandi is unique to North Korea, as other
state actors usually focus on espionage only. North Korean money theft operations are carried
out in service of the government, as a way of funding the nuclear program.

Advanced Social Engineering Techniques – The North Korean group has enhanced its

operational toolset by establishing a new social engineering attack infrastructure. This
infrastructure is quite sensitive, and even a single mistake can take down an operation, unlike
a network access campaign, in which a vulnerability is exploited, which is generally a safer
choice. The new infrastructure includes tens of fictitious profiles which are the product of
extensive reconnaissance work. The group invested a lot of efforts in the creation of credible
accounts, and it appears that in the past few months a significant upgrade has been observed
in this arena. The group representatives have improved their English skills and are not afraid
to communicate with its victims directly via WhatsApp texts or phone calls. However, we must
note that the English level demonstrated by the attackers is far from perfect.

Information sharing – it is possible that “Lazarus” is targeting defense companies and sharing

the data with other states, like Iran.
Social engineering

Securing Home Environments – Employees working remotely from home, especially during

quarantine due to the COVID-19 pandemic, poses new challenges for organizations aiming to
preserve the same level of security even considering the changes. We estimate that attacks
leveraging network vulnerabilities caused by the remote work will continue and increase.

Attacks leveraging LinkedIn –Lazarus has been leveraging the professional oriented social

network as vector of attack. LinkedIn is an ideal attack platform when it comes to new career
opportunities. It enables to attackers focus their efforts in their specific targets and create
profiles tailored to lure the victims into communicating with the impostor. Due to its
reputation, the use of LinkedIn provides reliability to the imposter profiles and enables easy
collection of information about the victim’s professional background.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
39 | P a g e

LinkedIn profile Protection – we believe that LinkedIn has yet to develop sufficient security

mechanisms and protect its users against impostor accounts. We find it alarming that a
fictitious profile, copycat an existing account, can be open and use without alerting to source
profile from which the information was stolen, as well as profiles contacted by the new
imposter profile. Furthermore, the network does not initiate a validation process upon
affiliating an account with a registered company or describing an account as belonging to a
recruiter or a Human Resources expert. In the first stage of the fraud, Lazarus create a solid
network of connections around the impostor’s profile thus establishing its credibility. It seems
that for now, LinkedIn is ideal platform for professional imposter profiles .

Leveraging Global Corporates: impersonating profile connected to large defense companies,

with thousands of employees, enabled the attackers an even easier way to gain the victim’s
trust, as naturally, no-one can verify all of the corporate’s employees.

Bypass Corporate Protections – direct contact with employees via their personal profiles and

private emails creates easy bypass of their company’s network protections, especially when
using both environments on company computers. It enables North Korean Lazarus group to
penetrate to sensitive corporate networks.

Employee Infection – a single infected employee can lead to the infection of the entire

corporate network, risking the employee’s position in the company and generally, its
professional reputation.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
40 | P a g e