Searching for the malware family
Seeing the many features of the malware, we tried to match it to a known RAT.
The communication between client and server is via TCP, is unencrypted, and uses pipe “|” characters and
“¡@#@!” as a separator. This description fits quite well with Xpert RAT. Searching for the x86 hex string
from cTimer class also leads to links with Xpert RAT. This tweet from a malware researcher even mentions
Xpert RAT.
An online search found two versions of Xpert RAT were found: “XpertRAT v3.0.10 By Abronsius” and
“XpertRAT v3.0.9 By Abronsius”. After building the payload and infecting the test machine, we could
observe the communication in figure 10. Notice the different colors between the incoming and outgoing
communication and the separator between both communication streams. However, in Xpert RAT builder, we
did not notice any reference to a disposable email, searches for banking website captions, or information
written to the configuration file. In addition, Xpert RAT samples generated by the builder have even more
functions such as keylogger, runPE, WebCam, Audio, Wipe module, and Remote Desktop.
Figure 10. Original Xpert RAT communication snippet
It seems that the aforementioned Visual Basic malware is an old and limited version of the Xpert RAT —
either a custom modification of Xpert RAT or a malware with source code based on Xpert RAT’s.
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 5/10
7/19/2019 Spam Campaign Targets Colombian Entities with Custom-made ‘Proyecto RAT,’ Uses Email Service YOPmail for C&C - TrendLabs Security Inte…
Figure 11. Xpert RAT builder
Figure 12. Functions available to an Xpert RAT operator
When searching for class names from the Visual Basic malware, the keyword “ClsRemoteRegistry” leads to a
discussion on a Spanish hacking forum (Figure 13). The user, who in his profile offers Prodigy Bot, an IRC
bot written in VB6, has a question related to the code from Leandro Ascierto’s project called “Proyecto
RAT.”
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 6/10
7/19/2019 Spam Campaign Targets Colombian Entities with Custom-made ‘Proyecto RAT,’ Uses Email Service YOPmail for C&C - TrendLabs Security Inte…
Figure 13. Discussion about ClsRemoteRegisty class on a hacking forum
After downloading and examining the project, we noticed familiar class names, delimiters, strings, and more.
Figure 14. Proyecto RAT website
Figure 15. Familiar class, form, and module names
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 7/10
7/19/2019 Spam Campaign Targets Colombian Entities with Custom-made ‘Proyecto RAT,’ Uses Email Service YOPmail for C&C - TrendLabs Security Inte…
Figure 16. Several delimiters used by Proyecto RAT, file ClsRemoteRegistry.cls
Figure 17. Hex code from cTimer class, with original comments in German, because this code was taken from
a different project
Based on these details, we believe this is a customized version of Proyecto RAT.