1.2 Botnet use
Dridex employs various Peer-to-Peer (P2P) botnets [9 10] composed of workstations it compromises [9]. Their P2P
architecture has three ( layers ), which makes the end command and control (C2 backend) machines more difficult to
identify, so bolstering the infrastructure’s resilience.
The C2 backend, otherwise known as the root infrastructure, contains the database and management logic of the
botnet. It comprises around 24 servers [10]. It transmits new updates of the Pony, Kill OS, Spammer and Email Stealer modules to the nodes . The C2 frontends ( admin node ), which operate like reverse proxies, and comprise around 15
servers [10], communicate with the nodes, of which there are believed to be several hundred. These are composed
of infected systems (bots) and represent the first communication layer in which the rest of the infected systems are
in contact. They communicate together to maintain the network, extend it, distribute the VNC and SOCKS modules
and transfer queries to the C2 frontends .
8 Vulnerability enabling the concealment of malicious instructions in a document saved in .RTF format.
9 For a clearer grasp of the notion of botnet, an assessment of the threat botnets pose can be found on the CERT-FR website [8].
10 In botnets using this architecture, zombie machines do not communicate directly with the C2 infrastructure, but with other zombie machines
defined in an updatable list of peers. As such, only a small number of machines are in contact with the C2 infrastructure run directly by the
threat actor. These machines then relay the information transmitted by the C2 to the other infected machines featuring in their list, which
will do the same.
17/07/2020 Page 4 sur 24
TLP:WHITE
TLP:WHITE
The malware Dridex: origins and uses
Fig. 1.2 : How the botnet Dridex works
Each bot ( peer ) can be identified within the P2P network via two IDs it generates: the bot ID identifies the infected
user on a computer and the computer ID identifies the latter. In this way, multiple infections on the same computer can be detected. Moreover, each bot keeps a list of other peers, i.e. IP addresses and port numbers. In order to
ensure this list remains active, the peers ask the nodes for updates at regular intervals.
Dridex’ maximum infection rate is considered to have been reached over the 2015-2016 period. In 2015, the main
countries to be targeted by Dridex were the UK, Italy and France, which had 1,804 bots. The United States was the
next most common target [11].