Conclusion
We have identified five themes for defenders to focus on as they consider what this attack means for their
organization:
Theme 1
As defenders of ICSs, consider the sequence of events taken by the adversary in the months leading up to
December 23, 2015 when this cyber operation targeting Ukrainian electricity infrastructure was planned and
developed. The operation relied upon intrusions that appear to have come from a broader access campaign
conducted in the spring of 2015. In a prolonged attack campaign, there are likely numerous opportunities to
detect and defend the targeted system. The two-stage ICS cyber kill chain helps note that in an ICS environment,
there is an increased window for the detection and identification of the most concerning attack types.
Theme 2
The cyber attacks were conducted within minutes of each other against three oblenergos, resulting in power
outages affecting approximately 225,000 customers for a few hours. While the total number of customers across
three service territories does not add up to a significant number of customers or load across Ukraine, there may
be significance in target selection or specific loads. One critical element of this particular attack was its
coordinated nature affecting three target entities and the thoroughness of the adversary sequence of events in
achieving their goals. Important opportunities for defenders to disrupt the adversary’s sequence of events were
identified.
Theme 3
The cyber attacks were mislabeled as solely linked to BlackEnergy 3 and KillDisk. BlackEnergy 3 was simply a tool
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
20
Implications and Conclusion
used in Stage 1 of the attacks and KillDisk was an amplifying tool used in Stage 2 of the attacks. BlackEnergy 3
malware was used to gain initial footholds into a multitude of organizations within Ukraine and not just the
three impacted oblenergos. It is unknown if the adversary had planned to use this access campaign to enable
their operation or if achieving access was the motivation leading to the development of a concept to attack the
power system.
Excessive focus on the specific malware used in this attack places defenders into a mindset in which they are
simply waiting for guidance on the specific attack components so they can eliminate them. This attack could
have been enabled by a variety of approaches to gain access and utilize existing assets within a target
environment. Regardless of the initial attack vector, the ICS tools and environment were ultimately used to
achieve the desired effect, not the BlackEnergy 3 malware.
Theme 4
The attack concept had to be able to work across multiple SCADA DMS implementations and target common
susceptible elements, such as storage overwrites for Windows-based operating system workstations and
servers. The attackers likely developed destructive firmware overwrite techniques after discovering accessible
embedded systems. There was likely a significant amount of unobservable adversarial testing performed prior to
introducing the attack into the environment. Many capabilities were demonstrated throughout this attack, and
they all provide specific lessons learned for defenders to take action on.
Theme 5
Information sharing is key in the identification of a coordinated attack and directing appropriate response
actions. Within the Ukraine, an organization with the ability to enable appropriate information sharing and
provide incident response guidance should be pursued. In the United States and other countries with
established information sharing mechanisms, such as ISACs (Information Sharing and Analysis Centers), the
focus should be on maintaining and improving the information provided by asset owners and operators. This
increased data sharing will enhance situation awareness within the sector, which will in turn lead to earlier
attack detection and facilitate incident response.
In many ways, the Ukrainian oblenergos and their staff, as well as the involved Ukrainian government members
deserve congratulations. This attack was a world first in many ways, and the Ukrainian response was impressive
with all aspects considered.
As the investigation and analysis of technical data continues and more information regarding this attack
surfaces, the authors of this DUC will update this report where appropriate in an effort to maintain the most
accurate and beneficial guidance document possible for ICS defenders. The E-ISAC will continue to provide
credible reporting and guidance as well.
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
21