Hellsing
The Hellsing group targets government and diplomatic organizations in the APAC region,
particularly organizations located in nations along the South China Sea. Most targets are from
Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia, and India. Hellsing malware samples were primarily
compiled in either UTC+6 or UTC+8. Typically, Hellsing infects targets through spear phishing
emails containing password protected RAR, ZIP, and 7ZIP archives. The passwords are sent in
the emails to the target. Locking the archives bypasses some security features such as Gmail
scans. Hellsing was discovered when Kaspersky Lab was investigating the Naikon group and
found that Hellsing had responded to a 2014 spear phishing email from Naikon with a custom
backdoor. It is not clear whether Naikon intentionally targeted Hellsing or if Hellsing actually
managed to infect Naikon; however, it is clear that Hellsing took the attempt as an attack and
responded with an escalated attack. Hellsing responded to the spear phishing request for
information with a series of inquisitive exchanges, pressing Naikon’s assumed identity (as an
employee of the secretariat division of the government of the assumed target nation) and fake
credentials. The conversation demonstrates that the Hellsing members are more proficient in
English than the Naikon group. Finally, Hellsing emailed back a “confidential” locked RAR and
the accompanying password. The archive contained two PDFs and a malicious SCR file. The
latter file was a backdoor specifically customized to target the Naikon group.
The backdoor can upload and download files, update itself, and uninstall itself. Each
instance of the backdoor has a command and control server, a version number, and a campaign
or victim identifier. The same Hellsing backdoor has been seen in attacks against ASEAN related
entities in the South China Sea region. Some of the Hellsing infrastructure overlaps with an APT
group tracked internally by Kaspersky, dubbed PlayfulDragon/ GREF, while other portions of the
infrastructure coincide with the Mirage APT group and the Vixen Panda group.
After Hellsing establishes a variant of its backdoor, it deploys information-gathering
tools. One tool, test.exe, gathers system information and tests available proxies. Another tool,
xkat.exe, operates from the Dbgv.sys driver to delete files and kill processes. Kaspersky Lab
62
claims to have seen the tool used to remove malware from competitor groups from Hellsing
victim systems.