Publication Strategy
Before entering the core content of this whitepaper, we would like to discuss our publication
strategy. Indeed, as security researchers, two questions we always find difficult to answer when
we write about an espionage group are “ when to publish? ”, and “ how to make our publication useful
to those tasked with defending against such attacks? ”.
There were several detailed reports on the Sednit group published in 2014, like the Operation Pawn
Storm report from Trend Micro [8] and the APT28 report from FireEye [9] . But since then the public
information regarding this group has mainly came in the form of blog posts describing specific
components or attacks. In other words, no public attempts have been made to present
the big picture on the Sednit group since 2014.
Meanwhile, the Sednit group’s activity has significantly increased, and its arsenal differs
from those described in previous whitepapers.
Therefore, our intention here is to provide a detailed picture of the Sednit group’s activities
over the past two years. Of course, we have only partial visibility into those activities, but we believe
that we possess enough information to draw a representative picture, which should in particular
help defenders to handle Sednit compromises.
We tried to follow a few principles in order to make our whitepaper useful to the various types
of readers:


Keep it readable: while we provide detailed technical descriptions, we have tried to make
them readable, without sacrificing precision. For this reason we decided to split our whitepaper
into three independent parts, in order to make such a large amount of information easily
digestible. We also have refrained from mixing indicators of compromise with the text.


Help the defenders: we provide indicators of compromise (IOC) to help detect current Sednit


infections, and we group them in the IOC section and on ESET’s GitHub account [10] . Hence,
the reader interested only in these IOCs can go straight to them, and find more context
in the whitepaper afterwards.

Reference previous work: a high profile group such as Sednit is tracked by numerous

entities. As with any research work, our investigation stands on the shoulders of the previous
publications. We have referenced them appropriately, to the best of our knowledge.

Document also what we do not understand: we still have numerous open questions

regarding Sednit, and we highlight them in our text. We hope this will encourage fellow
malware researchers to help complete the puzzle.
We did our best to follow these principles, but there may be cases where we missed our aim.
We encourage readers to provide feedback at threatintel@eset.com, and we will update
the whitepaper accordingly.
8