1. Executive Summary
Energetic Bear/Crouching Yeti is an actor involved in several advanced persistent threat (APT)
campaigns that have been active going back to at least the end of 2010. Targeted sectors
include:


Industrial/machinery


Manufacturing


Pharmaceutical


Construction


Education


Information technology


Most of the victims we identified fall into the industrial / machinery building sector, indicating this
is of special interest.
To infect the victims, the attackers rely on three methods:
Spearphishing using PDF documents embedded with a flash exploit (CVE-2011-0611)


Trojanized software installers


Waterhole attacks using a variety of re-used exploits


During the attacks, the Crouching Yeti uses several malware / Trojans, which exclusively infect
Windows systems:

Havex Trojan

Sysmain Trojan


The ClientX backdoor


Karagany backdoor and related stealers


Lateral movement and second stage tools


For command and control, these connect to a large network of hacked websites. These sites
host malware modules, victim information and issue commands to infected systems.
The dozens of known Yeti exploit sites and their referrer sites were legitimate, compromised
sites. They ran vulnerable content management systems or vulnerable web applications. None
of the exploits used to compromise the servers were known to be zero-day. None of the client
side exploits re-used from the open source metasploit framework were zero-day.
Overall, we observed about 2,800 victims worldwide, the most prevalent attack tool being the
Havex Trojan.
We believe this group is highly determined and focused on a very specific industrial sector of
vital interest. It uses a variety of ways to infect its victims and exfiltrate strategic information.
The analyzed data seems to suggest the following points:


It is not currently possible to determine the Country of origin The attackers’ global focus
is much broader than power producers


Their toolset has remained stable over time


Managed, minimal, methodical approach to sustained operation


Appropriate use of encryption (symmetric key protected with attackers public key for
encrypted log file exfiltration)


This report provides technical details on how they perform their operations.