Ransomware Incidents: (At Least) Seven Gangs Targeting Japanese Organizations
During June-October 2020, at least 11 Japanese victims suffered
ransomware attacks (based on the media reports and data on ransomware gangs’
“naming-and-shaming” portals used to threaten victims, monitored by KELA
technology), with the most well-known victims being Honda and Canon.
The most active ransomware gang targeting Japanese entities appears to be
the DoppelPaymer gang. The DoppelPaymer ransomware emerged in 2019 and is
believed to have links with former members of the TA505 hacking group. This group
has recently attacked four large Japanese companies from the construction, automotive
and manufacturing industries, including a corporation with $1 Billion in revenue, as
well as a German subsidiary of a leading manufacturer of specialty paper in Japan.
8/13
Interestingly, one of the victims of DoppelPaymer was later claimed to be attacked by
Conti, a new ransomware operation that started in August 2020 and believed to be
associated with the Ryuk ransomware.
DoppelPaymer’s leak blog featuring a Japanese manufacturing company with $153 million
revenue
Other ransomware gangs spotted attacking Japanese entities are well-known Maze,
Sodinokibi and Ekans (Snake), and two ransomware operations that have recently
adopted a tactic of public shaming – Egregor and LockBit.
9/13
Maze’s leak site featuring a full dump of stolen documents belonging to a Japanese
manufacturing company
Not much is known about initial infection vectors used to compromise networks of
Japanese victims. However, it’s clear that the attack surface is expanding due to COVID19-related issues and increasing trend for remote working, meaning that more and more
employees are using vulnerable software and exposed credentials to access corporate
networks remotely.
10/13
Business enterprises in Japan that implemented home office for employees after the outbreak of
COVID-19 (source: Statista)
For example, one Japanese victim, a manufacturing company, was probably
attacked by LockBit using exploit code for a Pulse Secure vulnerability
(CVE-2019-11510). The clue stems from the fact that the company’s IP address was
included in a leak posted on a cybercrime community containing details and credentials
of over 900 enterprise Pulse Secure servers exploited by threat actors.
The victim was first shared by LockBit in their thread on a Russian-speaking
underground forum with a domain that had a Chinese TLD, which could indicate it is a
Chinese branch that was attacked. When LockBit started their blog a few days later, the
victim appeared there without domains mentioned.
11/13
A post in LockBit’s thread, where the ransomware gang is recruiting affiliates, on a
Russian-speaking underground forum
The Pulse Secure leak, for which additional directories were shared several
days later, possibly affects about 117 Japanese entities, based on KELA’s
analysis of the IP addresses. Darknet chatter on the matter shows that this
information has been circulated between malicious actors before the leak
that happened in August 2020. Therefore, credentials to affected Japanese
organizations’ Pulse Secure servers could be used by different actors in their malicious
campaigns, including ransomware attacks.
12/13
Part of Japanese entities contained in the Pulse Secure leak (KELA’s document based
on the leaked directory)