Intrusion Overview
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group has actively tracked APT10 for several years, focusing
specifically on the group’s targeting of MSPs and global internet infrastructure
providers since the Operation Cloud Hopper report in 2017. We were particularly
interested in identifying whether any customers of the targeted MSPs were
subsequently compromised by APT10, given their potential access through
compromised MSP networks.
In September 2018, one of our clients (and a supplier as well), Visma, reached out to us
for assistance in investigating an incident uncovered on their network following a
breach notification by Rapid7. Visma provided us with malware samples and network
logs from the event. Analysis of the data revealed that Visma’s Citrix infrastructure had
been probed and subsequently accessed using stolen credentials as early as August
17, 2018. This was followed by an initial exploitation, network enumeration, and
malicious tool deployment on various Visma endpoints within two weeks of initial
access. The theft of enterprise login credentials was conducted within two and a half
weeks of initial access.
On August 30, 2018, APT10 deployed their first modified version of Trochilus that had
its C2 communications encrypted using Salsa20 and RC4 ciphers instead of the more
common RC4-encrypted Trochilus variant seen in the wild. This sample, similar to other
Trochilus samples, was deployed using a DLL sideloading method utilizing three files,
uploaded to the same folder on the victim machine as identified in US-CERT advisory
TA17-117A (last revised on December 20, 2018). This method involves the use of a
legitimate binary (File 1) used to load a malicious DLL (File 2). The malicious DLL is
renamed to match the name of an expected DLL to be loaded by the executable. The
malicious DLL then decrypts and decompresses shellcode contained within a third file
placed by the attackers in the same temporary folder. The configuration file then loads
the Trochilus payload into memory by injecting it into a valid system process. This
method of malicious payload installation is a well-documented TTP of APT10.
The attackers used Mimikatz (pd.exe) to enable credential theft and made use of
scheduled tasks via the Microsoft BITSAdmin utility to transfer files from their C2 to
the Visma network. The attackers preferred to upload their malicious tooling to the
C:\ProgramData\temp or C:\ProgramData\media directories and executed commands
using batch files (x.bat). A full list of the filenames of the suspected attacker tooling can
be found in the report appendices.
7/21
BITSAdmin example commands used by the attackers.
In order to exfiltrate the compromised data, the attackers employed custom malware
that used Dropbox as its C2. They also used WinRAR and cURL for Windows, both often
renamed, to compress and upload the exfiltrated files from the Visma network to the
Dropbox API.
Our research partner Rapid7 investigated the Dropbox use and found that the
attackers had used the same account to store exfiltrated data from a global apparel
company. They also identified broadly similar TTPs being used in the attack against a
U.S. law firm specializing in intellectual property law. The firm has a dedicated China
practice aimed at assisting Chinese companies entering the U.S. market.
Rapid7’s investigation revealed the law firm was first targeted in late 2017, followed by
the apparel company a few months later, and finally, the Visma attack in August 2018.
In one of the attacks, Rapid7 identified the attackers escaping a Citrix application in
order to run the payload script on the victim desktop. Interestingly, in all three attacks,
the targeting of Citrix remote desktops was a common thread. Additionally, the same
DLL sideloading technique observed in the Visma attack was used, and many of the
tools deployed by the attackers shared naming similarities as well (1.bat, cu.exe, ss.rar,
r.exe, pd.exe). Most interestingly, Rapid7 observed the use of the Notepad++ updater
gup.exe as a legitimate executable to sideload a malicious DLL (libcurl.dll) in order to
deploy a variant of the UPPERCUT backdoor (also known as ANEL). APT10 used this
approach to deploy UPPERCUT when targeting Japanese corporations in July 2018.