Assessing the impact of the intrusion
Once an intrusion has been identified, it is important to understand the extent of it – such
as whether lateral movement is occurring and what connectivity the infected device has in
general. Asset management is never perfect, so it can be very hard for organizations to
determine what damage a compromised device is capable of inflicting.
Darktrace presents this information in real time, and from a bird’s-eye perspective,
making the assessment very simple. It immediately highlights which subnet the device is
located in and any further context.
Figure 3: Darktrace’s Threat Visualizer displaying the connectivity of a device
Based on this information, the organization confirmed that it was a corporate device that
had been infected by APT35. As Darktrace shows any credentials associated with the
device, a quick assessment could be made of potentially compromised accounts.
https://www.darktrace.com/en/blog/apt-35-charming-kitten-discovered-in-a-pre-infected-environment/ 4/7
4/26/2021 APT35 ‘Charming Kitten' discovered in a pre-infected environment | Blog | Darktrace
Figure 4: Similar and associated credentials of a device
Luckily, only a single local user account was associated with the device.
The exact level of privileges and connectivity which the infected device had, as well as the
extent to which the intrusion might have spread from the initially infected device, was
still uncertain. By looking at the device’s event log, this became rapidly clear within
minutes.
Filtering first for internal connections only (excluding any connections going to the
Internet) gave a good idea of the level of connectivity of the device. A cursory glance
showed that the device did indeed have some level of internal connectivity. It made DNS
requests to the internal domain controller and was making successful NetBIOS
connections over ports 135 and 139 internally.
By filtering further in the event log, it quickly became clear that in this time the device
had not used any administrative channels, such as RDP, SSH, Telnet, or SMB. This is a
strong indicator that no lateral movement over common channels had taken place.
It is more difficult to assess whether the device was performing any other suspicious
activity, like stealthy reconnaissance or staging data from other internal devices.
Darktrace provided another capability to assess this quickly – filtering the device’s
network connections to show only unusual or new connections.
https://www.darktrace.com/en/blog/apt-35-charming-kitten-discovered-in-a-pre-infected-environment/ 5/7
4/26/2021 APT35 ‘Charming Kitten' discovered in a pre-infected environment | Blog | Darktrace
Figure 5: Event device log filtered to show unusual connections only
Darktrace assesses each individual connection for every entity observed in context, using
its unsupervised machine learning to evaluate how unusual a given connection is. This
could be a single new failed internal connection attempt, indicating stealthy
reconnaissance, or a connection over SMB at an unusual time to a new internal
destination, implying lateral movement or data staging.
By filtering for only unusual or new connections, Darktrace’s AI produces further leads
that can be pursued extremely quickly, thanks to the context and added visibility.
No further suspicious internal connections were observed, strengthening the hypothesis
that ATP35 was lying low at that time.