3.1 Tools Used in Fox Kitten Campaign
During the Fox Kitten campaign, the attackers have used many different offensive tools to maintain
foothold at the organization they have infiltrated. Upon initial compromise of the corporate network,
the attackers focused on establishing strong grip in the organization by installing a set of remote access
and communication tools.
After finishing the breaching process, the attackers establish their “grip” on the organization by
installing several backdoors at the systems they have compromised. Those backdoors allowed the
attackers to connect to the network secretly and steadily. In many cases, the attackers have connected
to the organization through a regular encrypted RDP connection.
The attackers created for their self-developed tools versions that match the operational systems at
target organizations. Thus, in 2017 the tools were developed and fitted to 32-bit systems, while in 2019
the tools were developed for 64-bit systems.
The tools used by the Iranian attackers can be divided into several groups :

Self-developed tools – tools developed by the attacker and fitted to the attacked. In this

campaign we have identified a few self-developed tools. The most important tool is a
backdoor that opens a SSH tunnel between the attacker and the target, and allows the former
to connect to the latter through RDP.
Following is a list of self-developed tools used by the Iranians in this campaign:
  - STSRCheck – Self-development databases and open ports mapping tool.

  - POWSSHNET      - Self-Developed Backdoor malware – RDP over SSH Tunneling.

  - VBScript – download TXT files from the command-and-control (C2 or C&C) server and

unify these files to a portable executable file.
  - Socket-based backdoor over cs.exe – An exe file used to open a socket-based

connection to a hardcoded IP address.
  - Port.exe – tool to scan predefined ports an IP’s


Open source-based tools taken from the internet and adjusted to the attackers’ use, either by

making changes to the tool or by using it as it is.
Following is a list of open-source tools used by the Iranians in this campaign:
  - Invoke the Hash – PowerShell commands in order to perform “Pass the Hash”

methods.
  - JuicyPotato – Local Privilege Escalation tool.


Seemingly legitimate tools used by the Iranians for their needs. Following are two examples

for this kind of tools:
  - Ngrok, FRP, Serveo      - Free Command and Control Protocol

  - Putty and Plink – Remote services


©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
6 | P a g e