Compromising software developers
All of the analyzed ASUS Live Updater binaries were backdoored using the same executable file patched
by an external malicious application, which implemented malware injection on demand. After that, the
attackers signed the executable and delivered it to the victims via ASUS update servers, which was
detected by Kaspersky Lab products.
However, in the non-ASUS cases, the malware was seamlessly integrated into the code of recently
compiled legitimate applications, which suggests that a different technique was used. Our deep search
revealed another malware injection mechanism, which comes from a trojanized development environment
used by software coders in the organization.
In late 2018, we found a suspicious sample of the link.exe tool uploaded to a public malware scanning
service. The tool is part of Microsoft Visual Studio, a popular integrated development environment (IDE)
used for creating applications for Microsoft Windows. The same user also uploaded digitally signed
compromised executables and some of the backdoors used in the same campaign.
The attack is comprised of an infected Microsoft Incremental Linker, a malicious DLL module that gets
loaded through the compromised linker. The malicious DLL then hooks the file open operation and redirects
attempts to open a commonly used C++ runtime library during the process of static linking. The redirect
destination is a malicious .lib file, which gets linked with the target software instead of the legitimate library.
The code also carefully checks which executable is being linked and applies file redirection only if the name
matches the hardcoded target file name.
So, was it a developer from a videogame company that installed the trojanized version of the development
software, or did the attackers deploy the Trojan code after compromising the developer’s machine? This
currently remains unknown. While we could not identify how the attackers managed to replace key files in
the integrated development environment, this should serve as a wakeup call to all software developers. If
your company produces software, you should ask yourself:


Where does my development software come from?


Is the delivery process (download) of IDE distributions secure?


When did we last check the integrity of our development software?

