Attacks against machine learning malware detectors
A security data science operation is becoming “table stakes” for serious anti-malware
companies, so it’s no surprise that attacks against machine learning malware
detection models are beginning to move from the academic space into the toolkits of
attackers. Skylight Cyber published an attack against Blackberry/Cylance’s PROTECT
engine in July, showing how appending a list of strings to the end of any malware could
trick PROTECT’s false positive suppression component into whitelisting the malware.
Examining similar techniques, Endgame, MRG Effitas, and VMRay partnered
to announce a machine learning static evasion contest at the DEF CON AI
Village. The goal of the contest was to produce ‘adversarial’ modifications to
malware samples that would lead three different (academic) machine learning
models to declare them “benign” without compromising their functionality.
At least two winning solutions were posted that achieved perfect results.
Similarly to the PROTECT evasion, the machine learning models were evaded
largely by appending “benign-looking” data to various parts of the file.
December 2019 25
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
While the weaknesses of machine learning malware detectors to adversarial
attacks have been known within the academic community for a long time, seeing
these techniques put into practice within the offensive security community is
novel, and highlights the need for multiple layers of protection against attackers.
Relying on a single approach – signatures or machine learning – leaves users
vulnerable to evasive approaches. It’s important to note, though, that the
evasion techniques required by the two different defenses are quite different.
Attempting to evade signature-based methods quite often is ineffective
against machine learning models, and evading machine learning models
frequently does nothing to evade conventional signature based approaches.
By combining machine learning and signatures intelligently, however, users
get the best of both worlds: the high specificity and rapid deployment of
signatures, with the ability of machine learning to “plug the gaps” and discover
novel malware variants that signature based systems frequently miss.