En Route with Sednit
Bootkit
Interestingly, we observed Downdelph deployment with a bootkit on two occasions, Cases 1 and 5
in Figure 4. As defined in ESET’s VirusRadar® [17], a bootkit is “ A type of rootkit that infects the Master
Boot Record or Volume Boot Record (VBR) on a hard disk drive in order to ensure that its code will be run
each time the computer boots. […​] ”.
In recent years, bootkits have become popular as a way to load unsigned malicious Windows drivers,
which is normally prevented by the OS in 64-bit versions of Windows. But in the present case the bootkit
serves as a stealthy persistence method for the user-mode downloader Downdelph — although
for this purpose an unsigned driver will indeed be loaded, as we will describe later. Persistence through
a bootkit makes detection harder, as its code is executed before the operating system is fully loaded.
The bootkit in question has the ability to infect Microsoft Windows versions from Windows XP
to Windows 7, on both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures. To the best of our knowledge the bootkit used
by Downdelph has never been documented, even though it belongs to the well-known category
of bootkits infecting the Master Boot Record (MBR) — first sector of the hard drive — to take control
of the startup process.
We will now describe the various components installed on the machine during the infection
by the bootkit, and then how those components cooperate during startup to eventually
execute Downdelph.
Installation Process
The bootkit installation process varies depending on the Windows version, and whether
the machine is 32-bit or 64-bit. In all cases the bootkit installer starts by overwriting the hard
drive’s first sectors — a sector being the basic hard drive storage unit, resulting in a new hard drive
layout as shown in Figure 8 and described in the following.
Sector 1
Sector 2
Sector 3
Bootkit MBR
Original MBR
(XOR-encrypted)
Bootkit Code
(XOR-encrypted)
Bootkit Driver
(XOR-encrypted,
RC4-encrypted)
Legitimate
data
Figure 8. Beginning of infected hard drive layout
First things first: the MBR is overwritten with a custom version, while an encrypted copy
of the original MBR code is stored in the second sector. Starting in the third sector comes the core
bootkit code, encrypted with a simple XOR-based algorithm. This core code will be slightly different
depending on the operating system versions, as the hooks — described later — put in place at startup
will vary. Finally comes an RC4-encrypted Windows driver, which depending on the architecture will
be a 32-bit or 64-bit binary.
16