campaigns for ambiguous
to Iran, domestic hacking groups in mid-2008
exchanged tit-for-tat defacements with competi## then disappear. tors in neighboring Arab countries after the of
ficial sites of Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani were
vandalized with anti-Shia content by an Emirati
hacker. Such defacement activities can often evolve into state-affiliated activities: one of
the participants in the anti-Sunni website-defacement campaign in 2008 was later linked
to the Iranian Cyber Army. This transition from patriotic hackers to state-aligned threat
actors, and the ambiguity between civic nationalism and state involvement, mirrors the
apparent development of cyber communities in China and elsewhere. [55]
In only two incidents have Iranian government entities taken direct credit for the defacement of political opposition sites, both attributed to branches of the Revolutionary
Guard. The first case was the March 2010 takedown of sites connected to the organization Human Rights Activists in Iran, which was alleged to be training cadres to mobilize
against the regime like the Velvet Revolution. The attack relied on the arrest of a website
administrator inside the country rather than on complicated tactics. The arrests and
destruction of data had a lasting impact on the organization by instilling fear in members
and giving rise to rumors about collaboration with the government.
The second government-initiated campaign, carried out during a Shia holiday in December 2013, led to the defacement of nine human rights and independent media websites
22     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
with a Quranic verse in Arabic and Persian. The IRGC’s Public Relations Department
announced that the operation had been conducted by the Revolutionary Guard’s Kerman Branch and claimed that the defaced websites had been established by the country’s
enemies and supported by internal seditionists.
In most cases, Iran uses cutout or proxy organizations, allowing it to keep some distance
from the disruptive incidents and propagandistic defacements. These cutouts represent
themselves as patriotic Iranians or pan-Islamic movements acting independently in
defense of the supreme leader, national sovereignty, and religious ideals. Conducting
offensive cyber operations through covert organizations provides Tehran plausible deniability for any attacks, thereby protecting its claim to victimhood while also allowing the
state to signal its intentions to its opponents. These
tactics are effective: there is still no definitive public
agreement on who was behind the Yemen Cyber