ATTACK OVERVIEW
PHASE 1: CREDENTIAL PHISHING
In October 2015, the Callisto Group was observed sending targeted credential
phishing emails with the subject “Remove account [target’s Gmail address]”. These
emails purported to come from Google alerting the target that their Gmail account
was about to be removed. The emails requested the target to click a link to prevent
their account from being removed. If clicked, this link would lead to a phishing
website that attempts to harvest the target’s Gmail credentials.
The emails were designed to appear authentic and convincing. The domains used
Google or commonly known Google services in both the referenced links and the
sender’s email.
Based on our information, these emails were highly targeted and were only sent to
a handful of targets. At least some of the recipient Gmail addresses were personal
accounts of the target and not readily available to the public, suggesting thorough
reconnaissance by the attackers.
Known targets include European military personnel. We also have reason to believe
this or related phishing incidents targeted key personnel in European think tanks.
PHASE 2: SPEAR PHISHING WITH MALICIOUS ATTACHMENTS
In early 2016, the Callisto Group was observed sending targeted spear phishing
emails containing malicious attachments. These emails were sent from email
accounts of individuals likely to be familiar to the recipient. We believe these email
accounts were compromised in the previous phase of the attack, or in similar
related phishing attacks.
Known spear phishing emails made reference to a conference with relevance to
European security policy. The malicious attachments purported to be invitations
or drafts of the agenda for the conference. The compromised email accounts used
to send the spear phishing emails belonged to individuals involved in organizing
the conference. Combining this information together resulted in highly convincing
spear phishing.
Known targets of these spear phishing emails with malicious attachments include
military personnel, government officials, think tanks, and journalists in Europe and
the South Caucasus. We are currently not aware of any evidence suggesting any of
these individuals were compromised, just that they were targeted.
All known malicious attachments sent with these spear phishing emails were
Microsoft Word .docx files. None of the known files exploited any vulnerabilities.
Rather, the files utilize a feature of Microsoft Word that allows “objects” to be
embedded in docx files. In the case of these malicious files, the embedded object is
the malware executable.
CALLISTO GROUP 3
IMAGE 1
Icon for an embedded malware
executable in a malicious attachment
IMAGE 2
Icon for an embedded malware
executable in another malicious attachment
IMAGE 3
Warning prompt shown to the user by recent versions of Microsoft Word
if the user clicks the icon for the embedded malware executable.
The malware will only be executed if the user clicks “OK”.
For the embedded malware to be executed, a user needs to click an icon in the
docx file (see Images 1 and 2 for examples). Additionally, in recent versions of
Microsoft Word, if a user clicks the icon for the embedded executable, Word will
prompt the user with a warning (see Image 3). The payload will only be executed
if the user acknowledges the prompt.
MALWARE USAGE
In all known malicious attachments, the final payload was a variant of the “Scout”
tool from the HackingTeam Remote Control System (RCS) Galileo hacking
platform. HackingTeam is an Italian software company that created RCS, which
they describe as “the hacking suite for governmental interception”. [1] In July 2015,
news emerged that HackingTeam had been breached. One of the consequences
of this incident was the then latest version of RCS Galileo being leaked to the
public. [2 ]
As a result of the leak, both the source code and the ready-made installers for
the RCS platform were made available for anyone to use. Based on our analysis
of Callisto Group’s usage of RCS Galileo, we believe the Callisto Group did not
utilize the leaked RCS Galileo source code, but rather used the leaked readymade installers to set up their own installation of the RCS Galileo platform. The
process for using the leaked installers to set up an RCS Galileo installation has
been described online in publicly available blogposts, making the process trivial
to achieve.
In the known spear phishing attacks by the Callisto Group, they employed the
“Scout” malware tool from the RCS Galileo platform. The “Scout” malware tool is
a light backdoor intended to be used as an initial reconnaissance tool to gather
basic system information and screenshots from a compromised computer, as
well as enable the installation of additional malware.
4 CALLISTO GROUP

HackingTeam;
http://www.hackingteam.it/
Arstechnica; Hacking Team gets
hacked; invoices suggest spyware
sold to repressive govts; published 7
Jul 2015;
http://arstechnica.com/
security/2015/07/hacking-team-gets-
hacked-invoices-show-spyware-sold-
to-repressive-govts/

CONSEQUENCES
If a target of the credential phishing described in “Phase 1: credential phishing” clicked a link in the
email and proceeded to input their email credentials on the resulting phishing website, this would
provide the Callisto Group with the target’s email credentials. Unless the target was using twofactor-authentication, the Callisto Group would then have full access to the target’s email account.
We are confident the Callisto Group used this type of access to a target’s email account for the
purposes of sending spear phishing to other targets. We also believe it is highly likely that the
Callisto Group would leverage the same access to read and monitor the target’s email activity.
If a target of the spear phishing described in “Phase 2: malware deployment” opened the email
attachment and, crucially, clicked on the icon in the attachment, this would lead to the target’s
computer becoming infected with the “Scout” malware tool from the RCS Galileo platform. This
malware tool would have gathered basic information on the target’s computer and delivered these
to the Callisto Group. This malware tool would have also enabled the Callisto Group to install
additional malware on the target’s computer.
In effect, this would have provided the Callisto Group with full remote access to the target’s
computer, and by extension, to any data accessible to the target via their computer.