Chapter 7 Conclusion
In recent years, APT attacks targeting instruction industries and large corporations are detected
and revealed on a high frequency. Some of them are carried out to damage or destroy industrial
control systems, for instance, Stuxnet and Black Energy; some of them are aimed at information
theft, examples include the attacks plotted by the Lazarus Group which was finally released by
the industry alliance of Kaspersky Labs, Alien Vault Labs and Nevetta. The Operation OnionDog
we introduced here is also one of the latter. Such underground cybercrime can cause a great loss
as well.
In the malicious activities of Operation OnionDog, our researchers noticed that their naming
notations are almost obsessive-compulsively consolidated. Ever since the malicious codes were
created, their PDB paths are surprisingly coherent, for instance, the path of USB Worm is
APT-USB and the one of fishing emails is APT-WebServer. When the Trojan of OnionDog is
released successfully, it will send requests to C&C server to download other malicious programs
and save them in the file folder %temp% with the file names following the same pattern
“XXX_YYY.jpg” and are associated with specific attacking targets. All these signs indicate that the
organization behind OnionDog is very cautious to hide their tracks and has a very rigorous system
and strategic deployment.
In 2014, OnionDog used multiple fixed IPs located in Korea as their server IPs for the Trojans. This
doesn’t necessarily indicate the threat actor is in Korea because these IPs may only some botnets
or redirectors. In 2015, the network communication of OnionDog has been fully upgraded to
Onion.City which is a much more high-end and covert communication method compared to the
existing APT attack.
The fact that ICEFOG samples were found in the HWP exploit files reminds us that OnionDog may
adopt existing techniques and resources of some unveiled APT organizations in order to fly false
flags on others or mislead our researchers. More importantly, this also rings the alarm for us that
without discrimination between the research methods or between intelligence data, any analysis
from single-dimension intending to track the associations has the possibility to lead us to the trap
set by attackers. To reach a much more objective conclusion, we need to analyze from all facets
or dimensions rigorously to avoid any subjective assumption.
In addition, in the speculation of Chapter 5 ICEFOG “Rebirth”, besides building on our own
intelligence information, we also reference the published research and resources of some third
party security vendors like VirusTotal, DomainTools and Kaspersky. With the cross-validation from
multiple resources, the fidelity of the data is greatly guaranteed. Previously, in the contest
between security vendors and cybercrime or APT organizations, resources were severely out of
balance. We hope that from now on the situation will be greatly improved through the
collaboration among security vendors and corporations on APT defense.