Strategy and standard operating procedure
As in any typical targeted attack, Rocket Kitten utilizes several different malware types and has a concrete
tactical setup to compromise an individual or an entity. This compromise seems to mainly serve the
purpose of monitoring communications and extracting information, in short, espionage. The victim may
be the desired target because the information he holds is valuable to the attacker but he may also just be a
stepping stone to reach the actual target.
Rocket Kitten’s operating template, which remains constant in almost every case we have seen, has the
following components:

Point of entry: Rocket Kitten uses spear phishing and social engineering to establish contact with

either the primary or secondary victim. This can be done by faking accounts and identities:
- Using fake Google Drive™ or Gmail™ accounts (The Rocket Kitten Group often impersonated

persons of interest and public figures such as Israeli engineers.)
- Using stolen documents that suggest a legitimate cause and sender


- Using social media accounts as in Facebook to directly contact targets, create rapport via private

messages, and log correspondence as well as consequently make users visit phishing websites
The spear-phishing email contains a link or a file that when clicked or opened unleashes a payload that
takes over the target machine.

Command-and-control (C&C) communication: The infected computer communicates with a

C&C server. It can download whatever malware is available or intended for the cause and purpose
of the attack.
11 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2
As soon as the actors get the user’s password (through a request to type it sent via an email, a Facebook
message, or a phone call), they take over the chosen account right away and any other accounts they can
get their hands on (Facebook, other email accounts, and cloud accounts). They can employ a keylogger
(detected by Trend Micro as TSPY_WOOLERG [7]) that logs keystrokes.
They can, for example, connect an application to your Gmail account (in the cases we’ve seen, Microsoft
Outlook [®] obtained access to the Gmail account as a “connected app”) so we assume that the attackers
downloaded all of their victims’ emails for offline processing.
They can also install any other piece of malware.
1 Intelligence 2 Point of 3 C&C 4 Lateral 5 Asset 6 Data 7 Maintenance
gathering entry communication movement discovery exfiltration
Rocket Kitten attack components
12 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2