One thousand and one ways to exploit COVID-19
The share of social engineering attacks that made use of the pandemic remained
the same as in Q3: 4.6 percent. Despite the abundance of materials available online
about COVID-19, attackers still manage to lure victims into opening phishing emails
with the promise of valuable information. In one such attack, a phishing email dis
guised as an automatic message from SharePoint linked to a document supposed-
ly informing of pandemic-related requirements. Clicking the link led victims to an
attacker-controlled site.
Another popular ruse was financial relief. In late October, fraudsters sent messages
purporting to come from the International Monetary Fund claiming that 125 bene-
ficiaries had been shortlisted for compensation. All users had to do to receive this
bounty was to reply with their private email address and provide additional infor
mation if requested. The goal was to collect as much user information as possible.
The attack was masked to evade detection: the message did not contain any links,
the "reply-to" address differed from the sender address, and the message was
made to look like part of an email thread.
In December, fraudsters impersonated the New York Department of Labor to of-
fer $600 in pandemic relief. To receive the money, users were asked to enter their
personal data in a special form.
In yet another phishing attack, messages claimed to contain COVID-19 test results.
The email contained a password-protected RAR file with malware inside. This is
another time-proven stealth technique, since not all security tools can scan en
crypted RAR files.
Interest in COVID-19 vaccines was targeted in 40 percent of all phishing attacks in
Q4. A vivid example is the December phishing campaign discovered by KnowBe4
security researchers. The campaign was propelled by reports that a vaccine manu
facturer might not be able to supply additional vaccine doses to the U.S. Tapping into
panic and confusion, hackers sent messages asking users to fill out a form in order to
get on a vaccine list. When users clicked the included link, they were redirected to a
phishing site that pretended to be a legitimate cloud service asking users to sign in.
Figure 18. Sample of a vaccine-themed phishing email 18
i
About Positive
Technologies
ptsecurity.com
pt@ptsecurity.com
facebook.com/PositiveTechnologies
facebook.com/PHDays
COVID-19 vaccines interest both ordinary Internet users and cybercriminals.
Throughout the quarter, we observed attacks on vaccine production and supply
chains. Pharmaceutical companies, such as Fareva, Dr. Reddy's, Johnson & Johnson,
Novavax, Genexine, Shin Poong Pharmaceutical, Celltrion, and AstraZeneca, came
under a barrage of attacks. U.S.-based cold storage giant Americold, whose fa-
cilities have considerable importance for vaccine storage, was not spared either:
sources said the company was hit by a ransomware attack. Cyberattacks also tar
get government agencies involved in making vaccine-related decisions. In early
December, the European Medicines Agency was hit by a cyberattack in which
documents of vaccine developers Pfizer and BioNTech were stolen.