Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
Cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare require detailed planning
synchronized with the planning activities of the operations process. During the
planning activities, units typically rely on the two most common Army methodologies
to plan for operations: The Army design methodology and military decision-making
process. This appendix discusses how cyberspace operations and electromagnetic
warfare are integrated and synchronized into the operations process and integrating
processes using the Army design methodology and the military decision-making
process.
SECTION I – PLANNING METHODOLOGIES
A-1. Planning is a continuous learning activity, and though it may start an iteration of the operations process,
it does not stop with the production of a plan or order. Planning may be highly structured, involving the
commander, staff, subordinate commanders, and others who develop a fully synchronized plan or order.
Planning may also be less structured, involving only the commander and select staff.
A-2. Planning techniques and methods vary depending on the circumstances. Planners may plan forward,
starting with the present condition and layout potential decisions and actions in sequential order until they
reach the desired end state. Planners sometimes plan in reverse, beginning with the envisioned end state and
working backward. Planning methods may be analytical, as in the military decision-making process, or more
systemic, as in the Army design methodology. The Army design methodology and military decision-making
process are the Army’s two most commonly practiced methodologies when conducting planning activities.
A product of planning is an OPLAN or OPORD.
Note. The following discussion only describes integrating and synchronizing cyberspace
operations and EW through the operations process using integrating processes. This appendix does
not discuss how the integrating processes or other missions are incorporated into the operations
process. For more information on how the integrating processes and other missions integrate into
the operations process, refer to the proponent doctrine for each process.
ARMY DESIGN METHODOLOGY
A-3. The Army design methodology is a methodology for applying critical and creative thinking to
understand, visualize, and describe problems and approaches to solving them (ADP 5-0). When problems are
challenging to identify, the end state of the operation is unclear, or a COA is not self-evident; commanders
employ Army design methodology. Army design methodology is particularly useful as an aid to conceptual
planning, but it must be integrated with the detailed planning, typically associated with the military decisionmaking process, to produce executable OPLANs and OPORDs. The CEMA section participates as part of
the design methodology team, when directed, for insight on the complexities of cyberspace operations and
EW concerns. Army design methodology assists in the conceptual planning of integrating and synchronizing
cyberspace operations and EW with the concept of operations. Army design methodology is systemic (only
focusing on individual parts of a complete plan) and requires integration with a more detailed and analytical
planning methodology, such as the military decision-making process, to produce executable OPLANs and
OPORDs. Unlike the military decision-making process, Army design methodology does not have set
prescribed steps. However, several activities are associated with Army design methodology. They are—
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-1
Appendix A
 Framing an OE.
 Framing problems.
 Developing an operational approach.
 Reframing when necessary.
A-4. When framing the OE, the CEMA working group focuses on providing the design methodology team
a full understanding of the current conditions of cyberspace and the EMS in which an upcoming mission will
occur. By framing the OE, the commander and staff can determine the desired end state for the OE, including
desired conditions in cyberspace and the EMS necessary to conduct operations.
A-5. After the commander and staff determine the desired end state for the OE, the CEMA working group
begins framing problems of identifiable cyberspace and EMS-related obstacles impeding progress toward
that desired end state. Once each problem has been framed, and broad actions developed to prevent or
mitigate each problem, the CEMA working group can now assist the commander in developing an operational
approach to solving all issues identified. Upon completing an operational approach to resolve problems, the
commander and staff begin a more refined planning process such as the military decision-making process.
THE MILITARY DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
A-6. The military decision-making process is the most common iterative planning methodology used to
understand the situation and mission, develop a COA, and produce an OPLAN or OPORD. The commander,
CEMA section, and staff integrate cyberspace operations and EW throughout the military decision-making
process. The CEMA section relies heavily on collaboration with staff and support in planning, integrating,
and synchronizing cyberspace operations and EW throughout the military decision-making process as
members of the CEMA working groups.
A-7. The military decision-making process consists of the following seven steps—
 Step 1: Receipt of the mission.
 Step 2: Mission analysis.
 Step 3: COA development.
 Step 4: COA analysis.
 Step 5: COA comparison.
 Step 6: COA approval.
 Step 7: Orders production, dissemination, and transition.
S TEP 1: R ECEIPT OF M ISSION
A-8. Commanders initiate the military decision-making process upon receipt or in anticipation of a mission.
This step alerts the CEMA section to establish the CEMA working group consisting of staff members
contributing to the integration and synchronization of cyberspace operations and EW into the overall
operation. The alert enables the CEMA working group to determine the amount of time available for
planning, integrating, and synchronizing cyberspace operations and EW with the overall operation and decide
on a planning approach to accomplish the task. The CEMA working group gather necessary tools in
preparation for Step 2: Mission Analysis. These tools include—
 Cyberspace operations and EW specific current running estimates, including—
  - Facts regarding cyberspace and the EMOE in the assigned AO.

  - Assumptions regarding cyberspace and the EMOE in the assigned AO.

  - Friendly forces’ cyberspace and EW capabilities operating in the AO, including available

technical data.
  - Outgoing unit’s high payoff target list recommendations.

  - Outgoing unit’s detailed frequencies of interest.

  - Enemy activities and cyberspace and EW capabilities, including available technical data.

  - Conclusion and recommendations for meeting the commander’s cyberspace operations and

EW-related objectives.
A-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
 Relevant publications, including Army and joint regulations and doctrine on cyberspace
operations and EW.
 All documents related to the mission and AO, including the higher headquarters’ OPLAN or
OPORD, maps and terrain products, known friendly, neutral, and enemy cyberspace and EW
capabilities used in the AO, and operational graphics.
 Higher headquarters and other organizations’ intelligence and assessment products on friendly,
neutral, threat cyberspace and EW activities, and cyberspace and EW-related military terrain
aspects in the AO.
A-9. The CEMA working group begin updating cyberspace operations and EW specific running estimates,
especially the status of friendly forces, cyberspace and EW capabilities, and key civil considerations when
employing cyberspace and EA operations. A running estimate is the continuous assessment of the current
situation used to determine if the current operation is proceeding according to the commander’s intent and if
planned future operations are supportable (ADP 5-0).
A-10. The CEMA working group conducts an initial assessment of time and resources available to plan,
prepare, and begin execution of cyberspace operations and EW that may potentially support the commander’s
concept of operation. Table A-1, below, illustrates the actions and key outputs of the CEMA working group
during Step 1: receipt of the mission.
Table A-1. Step 1: Receipt of mission
S TEP 2: M ISSION A NALYSIS
A-11. The military decision-making process continues with an assessment of the situation called mission
analysis. The commander and staff, informed by subordinate and adjacent commanders and joint and mission
partners, gather, analyze, and synthesize information to understand the current conditions of the OE. Through
mission analysis, the commander and staff can attain situational awareness of the OE. They can then identify
wha t the command must accomplish, when and where operations must take place and the why the operation
is required.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-3
Appendix A
A-12. The CEMA section analyzes and synthesizes the cyberspace operations and EW tools gathered during
Step 1: Receipt of Mission to attain situational awareness of cyberspace, the EMS, and the information
environment in the AO in which the operation will take place. The CEMA working group analyzes the higher
headquarters OPLAN or OPORD, focusing on Annex C, Appendix 12. The G-6 or S-6 focuses on Annex H.
By analyzing higher headquarters’ OPLAN or OPORD, the CEMA section can attain an understanding of
the unit’s cyberspace operations and EW-related tasks, purpose, and how they contribute to the mission,
commander’s intent, and concept of operations. During mission analysis, the CEMA working group uses
higher headquarters’ OPLAN or OPORD to attain awareness of available cyberspace and EW assets, the
timeline of the operation, and cyberspace and EW missions occurring in the AO by other Services and unified
action partners.
A-13. During mission analysis, the G-2 or S-2 leads the IPB to analyze mission variables of the enemy,
terrain, weather, and civil considerations in an area of interest. The CEMA section collaborates with the G-2
or S-2 throughout the IPB to help analyze the effect of those mission variables on cyberspace operations and
EW. This collaboration includes using tools and products received from higher headquarters to conduct an
initial terrain analysis.
A-14. The IPB process identifies critical gaps in the commander’s knowledge of the OE, including gaps in
one or more of cyberspace and EMS-related military aspects of terrain and the overall information
environment. The commander and staff use these gaps as a guide to establishing their IRs or IPB products.
The CEMA working group establishes the initial IRs to attain information on recognized gaps identified
during terrain analysis to define cyberspace and the EMOE. IPB products provided by the CEMA section, in
conjunction with IPB products established by other staffs during mission analysis for other operations, results
in—
 The drafting of initial priority intelligence requirement.
 The production of a complete modified combined obstacle overlay with cyberspace and EW
considerations within the assigned AO
 The production of threat overlays, including cyberspace and EW considerations within the
assigned AO.
 A list of cyberspace and EW-related HVTs.
 Identifying cyberspace and EMS-related military aspects of the terrain.
 Unrefined event templates and matrices that include cyberspace and EW considerations.
A-15. The CEMA working group analyzes the higher headquarters’ OPLAN or OPORD and the higher
commander’s guidance to determine their specified and implied cyberspace operations and EW-related tasks.
A Specified task is a task specifically assigned to a unit by its higher headquarters (FM 6-0). An implied task
is a task that must be performed to accomplish a specified task or mission but is not stated in the higher
headquarters’ order (FM 6-0). The what of a mission statement in higher headquarters’ OPLAN or OPORD
is always a task. The CEMA section determines essential tasks from the specified and implied cyberspace
and EW-related tasks included in the unit’s recommended mission statement. An essential task is a specified
or implied task that must be executed to accomplish the mission (FM 6-0).
A-16. The CEMA section examines the unit’s current task organization of cyberspace and EW assets,
command and support relationships for augmentation, and status of current cyberspace and EW capabilities
and their limitations. The CEMA section also analyzes the cyberspace and EW capabilities of adjacent, joint,
mission partners, and civilian organizations operating within the unit’s AO. This analysis results in the
CEMA section determining if the unit has the assets needed to complete all specified, implied, and essential
tasks and to identify other cyberspace and EW resources required to fulfill those tasks for mission success.
The CEWO informs the commander of all identified cyberspace and EW resource gaps that need forwarding
to higher headquarters. The CEMA section provides the commander with any deviations necessary from the
standard task organization to consider when developing planning guidance.
A-17. The CEMA working group identifies any constraints placed on the unit regarding cyberspace
operations and EW. A constraint is a restriction placed on the command by a higher command (FM 6-0). A
constraint dictates an action or inaction, thus restricting the freedom of action of a subordinate command.
Constraints are in paragraph 3 of the OPLAN or OPORD. The CEMA section should be aware of cyberspace
A-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
and EW-related limitations, including spectrum usage, the types of cyberspace and EW capabilities allowed,
and cyberspace operations and EW-related authorizations delegated and not delegated to the unit commander.
A-18. The CEMA working group gathers critical facts based on analyzing the mission and operational
variables provided through the IPB process and from adjacent, higher, joint organizations and mission
partners. This information helps with developing assumptions of cyberspace and the EMOE throughout the
assigned AO. A fact is a statement of truth, or a statement thought to be true at the time. An assumption is a
supposition on the current situation or a presupposition on the future course of events, either or both assumed
to be true in the absence of positive proof, necessary to enable the commander in the process of planning to
complete an estimate of the situation and make a decision on the COA. In the absence of facts, the CEMA
working group establishes assumptions of cyberspace and the EMS within their assigned AO. These
assumptions include potential threat cyberspace and EW capabilities operating within the assigned AO.
A-19. The CEMA section uses risk management to prioritize cyberspace security. The CEMA section
collaborates with the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager to review the joint restricted frequency list and mitigate
apparent and potential frequency and network conflictions. The CEMA section employs EP to mitigate
electromagnetic environmental effects, electromagnetic compatibility issues, implement electromagnetic
hardening, and electromagnetic masking.
A-20. During mission analysis, the CEMA working group identifies cyberspace and EW-related gaps in the
information received from higher headquarters, adjacent and joint units, and mission partners. These gaps
are provided to the commander and added to the commander’s critical information requirements, which falls
into two categories: PIRs and friendly force information requirement(s). A priority intelligence requirement
is an intelligence requirement, stated as a priority for intelligence support that the commander and staff need
to understand the adversary or other aspects of the operational environment (FM 6-0). A friendly force
information requirement is information the commander and staff need to understand the status of friendly
force and supporting capabilities (FM 6-0).
A-21. The CEMA section works closely with the G-3 or S-3 and G-2 or S-2 in developing the initial
information collection plan. The CEMA section also works with these sections to adjust the information
collection effort to answer IRs necessary in developing an effective plan. The CEMA section nominates
cyberspace and EW-related PIRs and FFIRs to the commander as contributing products to the information
collection plan.
A-22. The initial information collection plan sets reconnaissance, surveillance, and intelligence operations in
motion. The G-2 or S-2 bears overall responsibility for the information collection plan and works closely
with the G-3 or S-3, and attains information to support the IPB process by synchronizing available SIGINT
products to satisfy CCIRs and IRs and to provide the commander with intelligence throughout the OE for
continuous situational awareness.
A-23. As more information becomes available, the CEMA section updates cyberspace operations and EWrelated running estimates that will result in recommended adjustments to the overall plan of operation. The
CEMA section considers using available time by comparing the needed time to accomplish cyberspace
operations and EW-related tasks to the higher headquarters’ timeline and determine the possibility of mission
accomplishment in the allotted time. The CEMA section makes the necessary adjustments to the plan of
operations in an attempt to stay within timeline parameters and inform the commander of any task that cannot
be accomplished with the allotted time, especially those tasks deemed critical or essential. The commander
uses this information to determine accepted risks and to inform higher headquarters of gaps identified because
of timeline constraints.
A-24. The CEMA section contributes to developing COA evaluation criteria by establishing standards used
to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of cyberspace operations and EW discussed in one COA relative
to other COAs. Developing these criteria during mission analysis helps to eliminate bias before COA analysis
and comparisons. Table A-2, page A-6, illustrates the actions and key outputs of the CEMA working group
during Step 2: mission analysis.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-5
Appendix A
Table A-2. Step 2: Mission analysis
A-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
S TEP 3: C OURSE OF A CTION D EVELOPMENT
A-25. COA development generates options for subsequent analysis and comparison that satisfy the
commander’s intent and planning guidance. A COA is a broad potential solution to an identified problem.
During COA development, the CEMA working group uses the tools received and analyzed from higher
headquarters, adjacent and joint units, and unified action partners in conjunction with the commander’s intent,
planning guidance gathered. The CEMA section contributes to COA development by integrating and
synchronizing cyberspace operations and EW into COAs using operational and tactical art. During the
development of different COAs, the CEMA working group develops varying methods to integrate,
synchronize, and conduct cyberspace operations and EW that is within the commander’s intent and planning
guidance.
A-26. The CEMA section assists the other staff with examining each prospective COA for validity using the
evaluation criteria established during Step 2: Mission Analysis. When considering the validity of each
prospective COA, screening criteria should include—
 Feasibility. Integrated and synchronized cyberspace operations and EW in the COA that
accomplish the mission within the established time, space, and cyberspace and EW resource
limitations.
 Acceptability. Cyberspace operations and EW integrated and synchronized in the COA balance
cost and risk with the advantage gained.
 Suitability. Cyberspace operations and EW supports the COA that accomplishes the mission
within the commander’s intent and planning guidance.
 Distinguishability. Cyberspace operations and EW integration, synchronization, and conduct of
operation should be different for each COA developed. Differences should include task
organizations, cyberspace and EW capabilities, and the use of cyberspace and EW resources from
supporting adjacent and joint organizations and unified action partners.
 Completeness. Cyberspace operations and EW integrated and synchronized in the COA should
incorporate—
  - How cyberspace operations and EW will support the operations process.

  - How cyberspace operations and EW support shaping operations, creating and preserving

conditions for success during decisive operations or efforts.
  - How cyberspace operations and EW support sustaining operations, enabling shaping and

decisive operations or efforts.
  - How cyberspace operations and EW support the COA, accounting for offensive, defensive,

and stability or defense support of civil authorities’ tasks.
  - How to perform cyberspace operations and EW specified, implied, and essential tasks to

achieve desired conditions in cyberspace and the EMS.
  - How to use cyberspace and EW capabilities to mitigate obstacles, attain access to various

avenues of approach (including observation and fields of fire), and protect key terrain in
cyberspace and the EMS.
A-27. During COA development, commanders and staff need to understand and appreciate the unpredictable
and uncertain nature of the OE. The CEMA section should show this same understanding and appreciation
for the unpredictability and uncertainty when supporting the development schemes of cyberspace operations
and EW for each COA.
A-28. The CEMA working group assesses cyberspace operations and EW as enablers for combat power
(assess relative combat power). Combat power is the total means of destructive, constructive, and information
capabilities that a military unit or formation can apply at a given time (ADP 3-0). Combat power includes
the warfighting functions plus leadership and information.
A-29. The CEMA working group assesses organic and non-organic cyberspace and EW capabilities available
for the operation. This assessment assists the CEMA section in making a rough estimate of the ratio of
friendly cyberspace and EW capabilities to known enemy cyberspace and EW capabilities.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-7
Appendix A
A-30. The CEMA section compares the combined (organic and non-organic) friendly cyberspace and EW
capabilities strengths against enemy cyberspace and EW weaknesses, and vice versa. The CEMA section
uses this comparison to identify vulnerabilities in friendly cyberspace and the EMS and gain insight into
employing cyberspace operations and EW throughout the assigned AO effectively.
A-31. Based on the commander’s guidance and the initial results of relative combat power assessment, the
CEMA working group generates different cyberspace operations and EW schemes for developing COAs.
The scheme for each COA should indicate opposition toward each likely enemy COA while accounting for
essential stability tasks (providing a level of civil security, civil control, and certain essential services). The
CEMA working group incorporates brainstorming to generate options to produce the broadest range of
choices in establishing cyberspace operations and EW schemes for the COAs. During brainstorming, all
members of the working group should remain unbiased and open-minded when developing proposed options.
A-32. The CEMA working group determines the necessary Army and joint doctrinal requirements for
cyberspace operations, EW, and supported and supporting operations. The CEMA working group further
considers potential cyberspace and EW capabilities of non-organic units and other non-military organizations
and agencies.
A-33. The commander and staff develop an operational framework to visualize and describe the application
of combat power in time, space, purpose, and resources while developing the concept of operations. The
operational framework consists of four components:
 Commanders are assigned an AO for conducting operations.
 Commanders can designate deep, close, support, and consolidation areas to describe the physical
arrangement of forces in time and space.
 Within deep, close, support, and consolidation areas, commanders conduct decisive, shaping, and
sustaining operations to articulate an operation in terms of purpose.
 Commanders designate the main and supporting efforts to designate the shifting prioritization of
resources.
A-34. The CEMA working group brainstorms to generate options on how to provide the necessary cyberspace
and EW capabilities to support the four components of the operational framework. Once the CEMA working
group has explored possibilities in providing cyberspace operations and EW support for each COA, they
examine each COA to determine if it satisfies the screening criteria stated in paragraph A-28, changing,
adding, and eliminating COAs as appropriate. The CEMA working group places extensive focus on their
developed scheme of cyberspace operations and EW for each COA during the screening. The CEMA working
group should avoid creating one good COA among several inadequate COAs when generating options.
A-35. The CEMA working group determines the necessary cyberspace and EW capabilities to employ as
enablers for combat power required to support the related tasks and purposes of decisive, shaping, and
sustaining operations (the third component of the operational framework). The CEMA working group uses
historical planning ratios as a starting point to determine the necessary ratio of friendly cyberspace and EW
capabilities to enemy cyberspace and EW capabilities that will result in the desired outcome.
A-36. The CEMA working group also considers the relative cyberspace and EW capabilities necessary to
shape the OE, resulting in an initial array that identifies the total amount of cyberspace and EW assets needed
to accomplish the mission. The CEMA working group adds this information to the unit’s total array of forces
used in the commander’s broad concept of operations. In the broad concept of operations, the commander
describes how arrayed forces accomplish the mission within the commander’s intent.
A-37. The CEMA section participates in the COA briefing in which the staff briefs each developed COA to
the commander. The CEWO briefs the commander on the cyberspace operations and EW activities and
capabilities included in each COA, including effects resulting from operational and mission variables. The
CEWO also describes how each scheme of cyberspace operations and EW may result in the desired outcome.
After the COA briefing, the commander selects or modifies those selected COAs for continued analysis and
issues planning guidance.
A-38. Throughout COA development, the CEMA working group continues to update cyberspace and EWrelated running estimates and IPB products (such as overlays, HVTs, and aspects of terrain). Table A-3, page
A-9, illustrates the actions and key outputs of the CEMA working group during Step 3: COA development.
A-8 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
A-39. Using the information attained from the collaborative efforts of the CEMA working group, the CEMA
section develops cyberspace operations and EW-related statements and sketches for the G-3 or S-3 to
incorporate with the statement and supporting sketches for each COA. The statement expresses how
cyberspace and operations, and EW support the COA in conducting the combined arms concept. The sketch
provides visuals of how cyberspace operations and EW will support forces performing movement and
maneuver, including the positioning of forces.
Note. The commander may reject all COAs, accept one or more COAs, or create a new COA by
incorporating elements of one or more COAs presented at the COA briefing. If the commander
rejects all COAs, the staff starts over at developing new COAs. Accepted or modified COAs move
forward to Step 4: Analysis and War-gaming.
Table A-3. Step 3: Course of action development
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-9
Appendix A
S TEP 4: C OURSE OF A CTION A NALYSIS AND W AR -G AMING
A-40. COA analysis enables the commander and staff to identify difficulties, coordination problems, or
probable consequences of planned actions for each COA (accepted or modified during Step 3: COA
Development under consideration for approval. During this step, the CEMA working group can identify
vulnerabilities in each scheme of cyberspace operations and EW integrated into each accepted or modified
COA. These vulnerabilities may include—
 Probable undesirable cyberspace and EW effects to operational and mission variables and vice
versa.
 Potential coordination issues with non-organic organizations for cyberspace operations and EW
support.
 Lack of necessary cyberspace and EW capabilities available to attain the desired outcome.
A-41. The CEMA working group uses this newly discovered information to revisit and refine cyberspace and
EW-related portions of the COA as discrepancies arrive. COA analysis may also uncover potential execution
problems, decisions, and contingencies and may require restarting the planning process.
A-42. A process used to analyze a COA is called war-gaming. War-gaming consists of rules and steps to
visualize the flow of operation, given the force’s strengths and dispositions, the enemy capabilities, and each
possible COA. War-gaming incorporates the mission variables into the scenario to include the impact and
requirements of civilians in the AO.
A-43. Through war-gaming, the CEMA working group can visualize the required cyberspace and EW
capabilities for related targets in the AO. The CEMA working group can also identify potential vulnerabilities
that require cyberspace and EW protection. During war-gaming, the CEMA section assists the G-3 or S-3 in
the mission command responsibilities of the war-gaming process by employing and assessing cyberspace
operations and EW as a friendly scheme of maneuver. The CEMA section also assists the G-3 or S-3 by
inputting cyberspace and EW-related input into the COA statement and supporting sketch for each COA.
War-gaming results in refined COAs with updated schemes of cyberspace and EW, a completed
synchronization matrix, and decision support templates and matrixes for each COA.
Note. The G-6 or S-6 assesses DODIN operations, spectrum management operations, and their
feasibility of each war-gamed COA.
A-44. A synchronization matrix records the results of a war game and depicts how friendly forces for each
COA synchronize in time, space, and purpose relating to an enemy COA. The depiction includes the
synchronization and integration of cyberspace operations and EW in support of the warfighting functions for
each COA. The decision support template and matrix illustrate key decisions and potential actions that are
likely to arise during the execution of each COA.
A-45. The CEMA section participates in the war-gaming briefing, delivering a brief to subordinate
cyberspace and EW assets to ensure everyone understands the results of the war game. The CEMA section
captures all cyberspace and EW-related points of the war game before presenting the briefing to the
commander. The CEMA section drafts and submits an RFS for additional cyberspace and EW assets to
mitigate vulnerabilities identified during war-gaming. Table A-4, page A-11, illustrates the actions and key
outputs of the CEMA working group during Step 4: COA Analysis and War-gaming.
A-10 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
Table A-4. Step 4: Course of action analysis and war-gaming
S TEP 5: C OURSE OF A CTION C OMPARISON
A-46. The commander and staff evaluate COAs war-gamed objectively and independently against the
evaluation criteria established during Step 2: mission analysis and refined during Step 3: COA development.
The goal is to identify the strengths and weaknesses of each COA and select a COA with the highest
probability of success, and to develop an OPLAN or OPORD further.
A-47. The CEMA section conducts advantage and disadvantage analysis using a decision matrix to evaluate
each COA using the evaluation criteria. The CEMA section highlights the advantages and disadvantages of
cyberspace operations and EW for each COA concerning the overall mission. The CEMA section presents
those findings to the commander and other staff members. Feedback received in response to the CEMA
working group’s RFS contributes to the numerous determining factors during the advantage and disadvantage
analysis.
A-48. Findings from the advantage and disadvantage analysis conducted by all staff are implemented into a
decision matrix for the commander to compare and evaluate COAs thoroughly and logically. A decision
matrix assists the commander in making the best decision.
A-49. After analysis and comparison, the staff identifies the preferred COA and makes a recommendation. If
the staff cannot reach a decision, the chief of staff (executive officer) decides which COA to recommend.
The staff then delivers a decision briefing to the commander with the chief of staff highlighting changes to
each COA resulting from the war game. Table A-5, page A-12, illustrates the actions and key outputs of the
CEMA working group during Step 5: COA comparison.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-11
Appendix A
Table A-5. Step 5: Course of action comparison
S TEP 6: C OURSE OF A CTION A PPROVAL
A-50. After the decision briefing, the commander selects the COA that best accomplishes the mission. If the
commander rejects all COAs, the staff restarts the COA development process. If the commander modifies a
proposed COA or gives the staff an entirely different COA, the staff war-games the new COA and presents
the results to the commander with a recommendation.
A-51. Upon approval of a COA, the commander issues the final planning guidance that includes a refined
commander’s intent and new CCIRs to support the execution of the COA. The final planning guidance also
contains any additional guidance on priorities for the warfighting functions, orders preparation, rehearsals,
and preparation. It also includes priorities needed to preserve freedom of action and ensure continuous
sustainment.
A-52. The commander identifies the acceptable risks in the final planning guidance to gain approval from the
higher commander before accepting risks that could affect the higher commander’s mission. Based on the
commander’s decision and final planning guidance, the staff converts the approved COA into the concept of
operations and issues a warning order to subordinate commanders. The CEMA section publishes the draft
Appendix 12 of Annex C as an attachment to the warning order. The CEMA section continues refining
Appendix 12 to Annex C for the OPLAN or OPORD and assists the G-6 or S-6 with Appendixes 1 and 6 of
Annex H as appropriate. Table A-6, page A-13, illustrates the actions and key outputs of the CEMA working
group during Step 5: COA approval.
A-12 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
Table A-6. Step 6: Course of action approval
S TEP 7: O RDERS P RODUCTION , D ISSEMINATION , AND T RANSITION
A-53. The staff turns the approved COA into the OPLAN or OPORD with a clear, concise concept of
operations and supporting information. The COA statement becomes the concept of operations for the
OPLAN or OPORD. The CEMA section is responsible for the publishing of the final Appendix 12 of Annex
C of the OPLAN or OPORD. The CEMA section assists the G-6 or S-6 with Appendixes 1 and 6 of Annex
H as appropriate.
A-54. Before the commander approves the OPLAN or OPORD, the staff ensures its consistency and that it
is nested with the higher commander’s intent through plans and orders reconciliation and crosswalk. The
staff conducts a plan and orders reconciliation by conducting a detailed review of the entire OPLAN or
OPORD and all attachments, ensuring all staff members are in complete agreement. During reconciliation,
the staff explicitly compares the commander’s intent, mission, and CCIRs against the concept of operations
and the different schemes of support, including the scheme of cyberspace operations and EW. Any
discrepancies or gaps in planning receive corrective actions.
A-55. The staff conducts the plans and orders crosswalk by comparing the OPLAN or OPORD with those of
the higher and adjacent commanders to achieve unity of effort and ensure the plan meets the highest
commander’s intent. As with reconciliation, crosswalk also identifies discrepancies or gaps in planning that
require corrective actions. Step 7 bridges the transition between the planning activities and the preparations
activities of the operations process. The final function of Step 7 is the approval of the OPLAN or OPORD
by the commander. The commander signs the OPLAN or OPORD, the G-3 or S-3 disseminate the approved
OPLAN or OPORD to the subordinate headquarters, and the commander and staff begin the transition to the
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-13
Appendix A
preparation activities of the operations process. Table A-7, below, illustrates the actions and key outputs of
the CEMA working group during Step 7: orders production, dissemination, and transition.
Table A-7. Step 7: Orders production, dissemination, and transition
ANNEX C AND H
A-56. OPLANs, OPORDs, FRAGORDs, and WARNORDs include cyberspace operations and EW
information in various paragraphs and Annex C and Annex H. In OPLANs, OPORDs, and FRAGORDs, the
scheme of CEMA is discussed in paragraphs 3.g. (Cyberspace Electromagnetic Activities); and 5.g. (Signal).
In WARNORDS, cyberspace operations and EW information are in paragraph 5.g. (Signal).
Note. Paragraph 5g (Signal) has information regarding DODIN operations and spectrum
management operations-related information.
A-57. Paragraph 3.g. (Cyberspace Electromagnetic Activities) describes how CEMA supports the concept of
operations and refers the reader to Appendix 12 (Cyber Electromagnetic Activities) of Annex C (Operations)
and Annex H (Signal) as required. Subdivision of Appendix 12 of Annex C and Annex H into the following
cyberspace operations and EW-related information is as follows:
 Annex C (Operations), Appendix 12 (Cyberspace Electromagnetic Activities)—CEWO
  - Tab A—Offensive Cyberspace Operations.

  - Tab B—Defensive Cyberspace Operations.

  - Tab C—Electromagnetic Attack.

  - Tab D —Electromagnetic Protection.

  - Tab E—Electromagnetic Support.

A-14 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
 Annex H (Signal)—G-6 or S-6
  - Appendix 1—DODIN operations.

  - Appendix 2—Voice, Video, and Data Network Diagrams.

  - Appendix 3—Satellite Communications.

  - Appendix 4—Foreign Data Exchanges.

  - Appendix 5—Spectrum Management Operations (CEMA assisted).

  - Appendix 6—Information Services.

Note. For more information on OPLANs, OPORDs, FRAGORDs, and WARNORDs,
see FM 6-0.
APPENDIX 12 (CYBERSPACE ELECTROMAGNETIC ACTIVITIES)
TO ANNEX C (OPERATIONS) TO OPERATION PLANS AND ORDERS
A-58. Appendix 12 to Annex C of OPLANs or OPORDs describes the cyberspace operations and EW
divisions (EA, EP, and ES) supporting the commander’s concept of operations. The CEWO is overall
responsible for publishing Appendix 12 of Annex C and oversees the CEMA section in assisting the G-6 or
S-2 with the development of Appendixes 1 and 6 of Annex H. Appendix 12 of Annex C describes the scheme
of cyberspace operations and EW and CEMA integration and synchronization processes. It also includes
cyberspace operations and EW-related constraints from higher headquarters. Figures A-1 through A-5,
beginning on page A-17, illustrate Appendix 12 of Annex C and its associated tabs.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-15
Appendix A
Figure A-1. Annex C, Appendix 12
A-16 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
Figure A-1. Annex C, Appendix 12 (continued)
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-17
Appendix A
Figure A-1. Annex C, Appendix 12 (continued)
A-18 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Army Methodologies Used for Planning Activities
Figure A-1. Annex C, Appendix 12 (continued)
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 A-19
Appendix A
[CLASSIFICATION]
Use only if the commander does not sign the original attachment. If the commander signs the original, no
further authentication is required. If the commander does not sign, the signature of the preparing staff
officer requires authentication and only the last name and rank of the commander appear in the signature
block.
ATTACHMENTS: List lower-level attachment (tabs and exhibits). If a particular attachment is not used,
place not used beside the attachment number. Unit standard operating procedures will dictate attachment
development and format. Common attachments include the following:
APPENDIX 12 (CYBERSPACE ELECTROMAGNETIC ACTIVITIES) TO ANNEX C
(OPERATIONS) TO OPERATION PLAN/ORDER [number] [(code name)]- [issuing headquarter]
[(classification of title)]
ATTACHMENT: List lower-level attachment (tabs and exhibits)
Tab A - Offensive Cyberspace Operations
Tab B - Defensive Cyberspace Operations
Tab C - Electromagnetic Attack
Tab D - Electromagnetic Protection
Tab E - Electromagnetic Support
DISTRIBUTION: Show only if distributed separately from the base order or higher-level attachments.
[page number]
[CLASSIFICATION]
Figure A-1. Annex C, Appendix 12 (continued)
A-20 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Appendix B