Chinese-speaking activity
While hunting for malicious IIS modules, following our earlier reports about the mass
exploitation of ProxyLogon and the Owowa module, we identified another backdoor
module that has been widely deployed since at least June 2021. We named it BlackMoule,
as we believe it is an update of BlackMould, a malicious tool that was briefly mentioned
by Microsoft in late 2019 as part of GALLIUM activities against telecoms companies (aka
Operation SoftCell).
In May 2021, we reported on Websiic, a cluster of activities that formed a set of attacks
against high-profile targets in Europe and Asia. The attackers used the infamous
ProxyLogon exploit to compromise Exchange servers and deploy a China Chopper web
shell, which was in turn used to start a sophisticated infection scheme leading to the
execution of a new backdoor that we dubbed Samurai. The toolset includes several unique
loaders and installers that had not previously been observed and can be used to load
malicious payloads directly into memory, usually in the context of a legitimate process
such as svchost.exe. We discovered continued activity involving multiple new loaders and
installers, which were supposedly used to deploy different malicious payloads. We also
observed that the malware was exclusively used against servers until August 2021; but
starting from September, similar samples were also observed targeting desktop
environments via messaging applications such as Telegram. Despite the discovery of weak
ties to the FunnyDream cluster, we were unable to confidently attribute this new
campaign to an existing group, so we dubbed the threat actor behind these attack clusters
ToddyCat. Our private report on the matter takes a closer look at the available evidence:
we concluded that the overlaps are weak but unlikely to be coincidental, leading us to
believe that the actor behind Websiic might be part of the Chinese-speaking nebulae.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2022/106351/ 4/10
5/4/22, 12:47 PM APT trends report Q1 2022 | Securelist
At the end of January, the BfV (Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution of
Germany) issued a report detailing activity by the APT27 group (aka LuckyMouse)
targeting German commercial companies. Their analysis outlines the usage of a common
infection triad leveraged by the group, whereby a legitimate executable (mempeng.exe or
vfhost.exe) side-loads a malicious DLL (vftrace.dll), which in turn invokes the execution
of the HyperBro malware from position-independent code found within a third file
(thumb.dat). By investigating this threat through the lens of Kaspersky’s telemetry, we
found an identical intrusion set targeting an enterprise in Taiwan that deals with the
manufacture of smart city technology, which may suggest an intent to steal intellectual
property, possibly as a means of leveraging the same technology as an instrument of
surveillance. Another victim in which the same chain was exhibited is a computer game
manufacturer in Cambodia, where the attack could have been used for a different
purpose, possibly to infiltrate the company’s supply chain. We determined that the
attackers were able to spread across the network and remain active within it for months,
while making use of various tools. In addition to the infection chain outlined above, we
found post-exploitation tools that were not mentioned by the BfV, including a customwritten keylogger and a publicly available SSH and SFTP credential stealer. Interestingly,
we were able to observe the presence of a second malware loader on several hosts in the
network that coincided with the deployment of the HyperBro implant. This loader
leverages a fake Flash installer implanted with shellcode that is used to fetch a Cobalt
Strike payload from a remote C2 server. At the time of writing, we can only assess with
medium confidence that this tool is indeed associated with the group’s activity, indicating
a possible sharing of initial access to the network with an external entity, or usage of
Cobalt Strike as an alternative to HyperBro in the case of unsuccessful deployment.