3 Technical Analysis
This section contains the TTP analysis of the SilverFish threat group including the C&C
infrastructure, traffic distribution system, post exploitation steps, and malware detection
sandbox (we named it as VictimTotal Sandbox, see Section 3.4).
At the beginning of our investigation into the SolarWinds hack, the PTI Team started
analyzing the IOC data released by FireEye[8]. Among the published domain names,
databasegalore.com was the only one accessible during the investigation. The host server
also contained an active PowerMTA service on port 2304. After performing web directory
fuzzing, an another file ( example.php ) has been identified by the PTI Team.
Figure 2. Fingerprint of an existing IOC matching another server instance
Analyst Note : PowerMTA is an enterprise-grade email message transfer agent (MTA) for
sending high-volume, business-critical emails.
10 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
At this point, the PTI Team had enough details to create a fingerprint profile for the subject
host and started scanning the entire global IPv4 range using PRODAFT’s rapid scanning and
fingerprinting technology for hosts with similar characteristics. After 12 hours, the PTI Team
identified more than 200 hosts with the similarities mentioned above. After filtering the false
positive results, the PTI Team detected the C&C servers of the SilverFish group.
Analyst Note : In order to avoid future confusion, we have redacted the initial discovery
phase from the TLP : WHITE version as we are unable to provide further details in order to
preserve our proprietary technology in this field.
After gaining access to the C&C server on the subject host, we were not expecting to land
on the most critical piece of SilverFish infrastructure. One of the first thing we tried is to verify
if the victims have some kind of relation with the SolarWinds software. Upon closer inspection
of the C&C data, we were able to observe many victims using SolarWinds products(see in
Figure 3). This was an important milestone as we started our investigation from the IOCs of
the SolarWinds attack, traced that link to the C&C, and observed similar artifacts on the
server as well. A detailed analysis of the C&C is explained in the next section. (Section 3.1).
Figure 3. SolarWindsAdmin / An example of a compromised machine
11 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
3.1 C&C Analysis
The C&C panel of the SilverFish attackers is designed in a very minimalist way. The main
dashboard only contains the infected victims, generic comment section for each victim and
several options for filtering the victims.
Figure 4. Command and control panel dashboard
During the C&C server analysis, the PTI Team noticed that one of the filter options was called
”Active team”. This could indicate that the SilverFish is working systematically with multiple
teams. Additionally the victim comments include many English and Russian slang words.
Figure 5. Team based filter option on C&C
12 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
The victim details page contains the following information about the victim and the list of
executed tasks,