Spam tool
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/04/28/grandoreiro-how-engorged-can-exe-get/ 9/15
6/15/2020 Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE get? | WeLiveSecurity
During our investigation, we discovered a tool used for Grandoreiro’s spam campaigns. It
is not a tool that automatically registers large numbers of email accounts, as in the case of
Amavaldo and Casbaneiro; it is actually used to create and send the spam messages. It
does so by utilizing the EASendMail SDK.
Besides its main purpose, the tool sets up persistence using the Windows Registry Run
key and disables UAC. The most probable scenario is that the attackers distribute this tool
to some victims via Grandoreiro.
A small backdoor component is included and used to receive configuration files. Those
files dictate what the emails will look like, what they will point to or where to send them.
We provide a complete list of the configuration files and their purpose in Table 1.
Table 1. List of configuration files used by Grandoreiro’s spam tool
File-
name Purpose Description
ID.txt None Seems not to be used for the spam emails
html.txt Email body
template
Template for the email body (including placeholders those are replaced by values from other config files)
Template for subject (similar to html.txt for email
body)
assun
to.txt
Subject template
(assunto =
subject)
nomes.txt List of fake names Replaces [NOME] placeholder in the templates
link.txt List of malicious
URLs
The email will link to one of these
lista.txt List of recipients The email will be sent to all of these
login.txt List of usernames Information required to log into the email account
that will be used to send the emails
senha.txt List of passwords
smtp.txt SMTP server
address
As you can see, the tool is not fully automated, but relies completely on the configuration
data. This shows a lower level of sophistication. Its implementation shows similarities
with the Grandoreiro banking trojan, which is why we believe it was written by the same
authors.