Detailed Walkthrough
Our findings suggest that motivation for the attack was purely financial gain. Our analysis shows that the cyber
attackers and their physical counterparts worked in close and very effective coordination to execute this malicious
operation:
• The cybercriminal network behind this attack recruited so-called “mules”, (non-technical conspirators whose
job is to transfer money for cybercriminals), to open dozens of new bank accounts by physically visiting various
branches of this bank in different cities in the country. These individuals used counterfeit documents to request
bank accounts, most likely supplied by the organized cybercriminal network. Once these people had new bank
accounts approved, they then requested debit/ATM card companions to their new bank accounts. After they
obtained these debit cards, they probably handed these debit cards over to a member of the cybercriminal
network for distribution outside the country for later use.
PHYSICAL PART OF THE ATTACK
Recruit mules to
apply for new
bank accounts
Supply mules Rogue accounts Request Debit cards Debit cards
with fake IDs are created debit cards are issued sent outside
the country
• While the physical activities involving application for accounts and debit cards were taking place at the bank’s
various branches in the country, the cyber attackers gained initial entry, moved laterally and compromised
multiple systems inside the bank’s network.
GAINING INITIAL FOOTHOLD IN THE BANK NETWORK
Exploit Windows
Computers
Set up multiple
‘backdoors’ and
RDP access to
compromised
systems
Opportunistic
Phishing
Emails to employees
with malicious
attachments opened –
‘backdoor’ is
created
Social
Engineering
Attackers successfully
obtain ‘backdoor’
access through
compromised
computers
• After successfully compromising the bank’s network the cyber attackers then proceeded to launch an attack on
the third-party processor’s network and eventually (after numerous attempts) they succeeded. The bank, due
to their established cooperation with the processor, already maintained connectivity with the processor. This
made it easier for the criminals because they had already gained access to the bank’s infrastructure and had
captured the credentials used to connect to the processor. After gaining foothold into the processor’s network,
the attackers compromised the Enterprise Admin account which eventually gave them full access into the
infrastructure. Their next step was to execute reconnaissance of the card processing service.
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
3
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study
LATERAL MOVEMENT AND SUCCESSFUL COMPROMISE OF BANK NETWORK
Leverage Control
Weakness in
Windows Network
Launch Lateral
Movement
Attack
Obtain the
“Keys to the Kingdom”
Compromise
Bank Network
• Next, the attackers executed several malicious payloads on the processor’s network, key amongst them was
a legitimate monitoring tool installed on the processor’s Terminal Server (that allowed users to access the card
management application via a browser). This software called “Mipko” (advertised as “Employee Monitor”)
captures full information, including screen captures, keystrokes and several other types of information for all
users who logged into the system and/or accessed the card management application using their respective
credentials. In this way the software attackers captured almost 4GB of data within a month. The information
captured included keystroke logging and countless screenshots.
INSTALLATION OF KEYLOGGER AND COMPROMISE OF THE PROCESSOR NETWORK
Choose Staging Point Connect to Install Keylogger
on Bank Network Processor Network on Network
Compromise
Processor Network
• The attackers then identified the accounts on the card management application used by the bank employees
who had authorization to “request” changes to the properties of a customer’s debit card, and “approve” or
“commit” such a change. They were looking for such privileges to manipulate each of the cards associated with
the rogue accounts created during the preceding months.
• During the day of the final stage attackers used these credentials to:

Change risk ratings on the rogue accounts from high to low allowing the attackers to activate further credit

permission, known as Overdraft (or simply OD).


Activate the OD credit function on the accounts.


Manipulate or remove any anti-fraud control in place for these accounts.


Change the OD Limit on the accounts from the default value of USD$0 to ranges of USD$25,000 - USD$35,000.


Choose Privileged
User Account
in CMS
Raise Request to
Change Debit Card
Properties
Finalize Changes
to Debit Card
Properties
• The physical counterparts stationed at various locations in Europe and the Russian Federation then cashed out
substantial amounts of money for each of these cards from ATM terminals. Cash withdrawals across the region
began within minutes of the first OD property change made to the debit cards on the card management application.
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
4
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study
COORDINATED ATM CASH WITHDRAWALS ~ MILLIONS OF USD
Command &
Control with
Physical Mules
for Coordinated
Cash Outs
Coordinated Direct $ Value of Loss:
ATM Withdrawals Millions of USD
As in the preceding phases of the attack, careful planning went into the choice of ATM locations to be used for cash
withdrawals, based on the following criteria:
1. Location: those in solitary locations took precedence over those in locations with higher foot traffic.
2. Degree of physical security: ATMs with no security cameras (or those with defective security cameras) were
chosen as well as terminals that were not protected by security guards.
3. The ability to dispense substantial amounts of cash. ATMs (mis) configured to allow withdrawal of substantial
amounts of money were chosen. (Specifically, either very high or no daily withdrawal limits were selected).
4. ATM locations were chosen in cities across Europe, (including former Soviet Union countries), and the Russian
Federation. No selected ATM was located in the victim bank’s actual country.
The final stage of this hybrid operation took almost five hours to complete. This was the time required for each
rogue account to be carefully manipulated and for simultaneous debit card withdrawals across the geographic
region to occur. As in the first phase of the operation where the mules played an active role in requesting the new
accounts and debit cards, in the final phase the mules were employed to perform the cash withdrawals. Only a small
number of the ATMs were equipped with security cameras, so a few mules were caught in action. Law enforcement
requested video footage from surrounding buildings’ cameras and this revealed that the mules met with other
suspects (probably direct members in the cybercrime gang) shortly after cashing out the debit cards. These
meetings were most likely to deliver the stolen cash, after keeping their fee.