Sequence of events
Mass encryption of files on the client's infrastructure and a ransom demand formed the
starting point of the investigation. A large number of damaged files is itself a very visible
attack indicator that enabled detecting the intrusion. Retrospective analysis showed that the
client's infrastructure had been compromised not three or four days before (or even a few
https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/analytics/pt-esc-threat-intelligence/incident-response-polar-ransomware-apt27/ 1/23
11/30/2020 Investigation with a twist: an accidental APT attack and averted data destruction
hours before, as often happens in mass attacks), but in early 2018. What's more, the initial
infection was of a foreign office of the client. Then a subsequent breach of the head office
back home.
We believe that the initial entry point to the foreign office's network was a vulnerable server
on the network perimeter. Exploitation in February 2018 enabled the attackers to gain initial
access and then persistence, with the help of the ChinaChopper and TwoFace web shells.
The attackers used NBTScan for network reconnaissance and PsExec for lateral movement.
They obtained credentials for pivoting with Mimikatz. In some cases, we were able to detect
memory dumps of the lsass process that had been archived and uploaded. Because use of
Mimikatz was likely blocked by endpoint security software, the attackers were forced to run
bruteforcing offline. Another method was to scan hosts for so-called Eternal* SMB
vulnerabilities with SMBTouch and then, where possible, run the EternalBlue exploit and
infect the computer. On the hosts of presumably greatest interest, the SysUpdate and
HyperBro backdoors were installed for reliable persistence and access.
One unexpected result of the compromise was cryptocurrency mining at both the foreign
office and headquarters. Such activity remained unnoticed for one and a half years. During
this time the attackers only maintained their access abilities by periodically obtaining new
accounts or building tunnel chains. Our belief is that by early 2020, the attackers had lost
their access (for reasons unknown to us). We can see use of web shells on the foreign office's
servers on February 9, 2020. Subsequent actions were very similar to what had happened
two years earlier. By using the tools already described, the attackers obtained the credentials
of a domain administration at headquarters. This time, they deleted OS logs and stopped
Shadow Copy services, complicating subsequent incident analysis.
https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/analytics/pt-esc-threat-intelligence/incident-response-polar-ransomware-apt27/ 2/23
11/30/2020 Investigation with a twist: an accidental APT attack and averted data destruction
For the finale, on April 29, 2020, the account of the compromised domain admin was used to
push Polar ransomware to computers and run it, encrypting user files and demanding a
ransom. While our specialists were assisting the client in May 2020, the attackers made yet
another attempt to regain control of infrastructure with the help of web shells that were still
in place on the network of the headquarters and office, but this time to no success.
Here we have provided a timeline to better show the sequence of events.
https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/analytics/pt-esc-threat-intelligence/incident-response-polar-ransomware-apt27/ 3/23
11/30/2020 Investigation with a twist: an accidental APT attack and averted data destruction
CSIRT's objectives included recovering the client's data, which included key information
belonging to different departments. We performed analysis of the encryption malware and
were able to recover the lost files.