~~Critical attention required on the increasing~~ ~~sophistication and scope of disinformation~~
ERIC HORVITZ, CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER
Disinformation refers to the deliberate use of false information with the intention of influencing public opinion.
Efforts to fabricate falsehoods for the purposes of manipulating the masses have a long history. However, new
forms of disinformation have come to the fore over the last decade, enabled by advances in computing methods
and infrastructure that have transformed the power, scope, and efficiency of disinformation campaigns.
Widely used consumer platforms and services, such as social media, creator platforms, search engines, and messaging
services, now provide state and non-state actors with powerful channels for distributing disinformation. Beyond
channels, these services provide malevolent actors with ready-made tools to experiment, monitor, iterate, and
optimize the impact of disinformation campaigns.
Commercial online platforms have been harnessed by
these actors as engines of disinformation to power
messaging programs aimed at political influence,
polarization, and chaos. Disinformation strategies are
growing in sophistication, including the concerted use of
multiple services [ Note 108 ] to reinforce messages across platforms.
On a second front, advances in machine learning (ML)
and graphics have led to widely available tools for
fabricating high-fidelity audiovisual content, referred
to as synthetic media and deepfakes. For decades,
photos and comments by political leaders have been
manipulated or taken out of context in disinformation
efforts, often with dramatic effects. However, technologies
for generating deepfakes are providing malevolent actors
with powerful, general palettes for fabricating behaviors
and events. These methods are injecting new powers of
persuasion into disinformation campaigns.
In a third area of concern, artificial intelligence (AI)
methods can be used by state and non-state actors to
formulate and drive powerful psychological operations
that leverage insights and data about human
cognition. ML and reasoning can be used to profile
individuals and groups and to generate personalized
programs of disinformation aimed at influencing
beliefs, opinions, and actions.
The repurposing of consumer computing
infrastructure, use of tools for generating synthetic
media, and harnessing AI to guide psychological
operations are troubling separately and in synergy.
Together, they are supercharging disinformation,
with grave implications for the health and vibrancy of
democracies that depend critically on educated and
aware citizenries.
Note 108 Characterizing Search-Engine Traffic to Internet Research Agency Web Properties Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020 (acm.org) |
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Disinformation as an emerging threat Mitigation through media literary Disinformation as an enterprise disruptor Campaign security and election integrity
The general motive to spread disinformation is
to damage the reputation of an entity, mislead
consumers about the information, or influence
the outcome of a proscribed event. It is one of the
greatest threats to democracy, open debate, and
free and modern society.
Commodity cloud computing, open-source research,
AI tools and algorithms, and the speed and scale of
social media have created a perfect storm for the
rise of disinformation and malicious synthetic media
popularly dubbed deepfakes. [ Note 110 ] AI techniques to
create hyper-realistic digital falsification, also known
as deepfakes, include manipulated audio, video,
images, and text, which will seriously challenge
our ability to discern truth from falsehood. In this
report, we use the term “deepfake” as AI-generated
manipulated media used for malicious purposes.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
What might we do in the face of these
developments?
We need to critically attend to the increasing
sophistication and scope of disinformation—and to
engage on multiple fronts. First and foremost, we
need to invest deeply in modern media literacy, to
educate people about how to understand, expect,
and recognize disinformation and misinformation.
Work on media literacy extends beyond education
and includes efforts to provide new kinds of tools
that can help people to critique the source and
veracity of news and information. Second, we need
to support high-quality journalism, including trusted
news organizations. It is essential to have committed
reporters on the ground to see, hear, and report with
clarity on events and incidents. In addition, we need
to assure the health and vibrancy of local journalism.
On the technical front, there is promise in applying
AI pattern recognition technologies to detect patterns
of communications and content that reveal an intent
to deceive. Such work includes efforts to identify
audiovisual and text-based media as fabricated. On
another front, efforts in networking technologies
can be aimed at identifying primary locations
and organizational sources of disinformation.
Finally, there are promising developments with
technologies that employ a set of methods, including
cryptography, security, and database technologies in
production tools and pipelines that serve to certify
the origin and history of edits to online media
content, referred to as the provenance [ Note 109 ] of the
content. Exciting progress with media provenance
and authenticity is being nourished by strong cross
organization collaborations.
We are facing unprecedented disinformation
campaigns and related cyber operations by state
and non-state actors. These campaigns target public
awareness and knowledge with disinformation, while
others target enterprise operations and confidence.
It is important to stay aware of developments and
to come together to address the challenges with
awareness, technologies, and policies. Addressing
the new and evolving challenges will take ongoing
investments, innovation, and activity on multiple
fronts. This important chapter reviews some
of these challenges and provides insights on
directions forward.