Targeting software developers and cloud services
The number of attacks on IT companies has not decreased since the beginning
of Q4 2020. The main motive of hackers attacking this industry is to obtain data
(66%). In 27% of the incidents, hackers sought financial gain, and in 15% of the cases,
companies were hacked to facilitate subsequent attacks on their customers.
The consequences of the attack on SolarWinds were evident still even in early

Thus, in early March, news about the attack on the IT company Robotron

appeared in the media. The incident also affected the company's customers who
installed malicious updates for the Werkzeugkasten backup server. The investigation
revealed that the company's network was compromised as a result of the attack
on SolarWinds. According to Robotron, the first victim to install malicious updates
was a small company in the Netherlands (neither the name nor even the industry
in which the company operates were disclosed). Under the guise of updates, the
BlockKopieren ransomware was distributed.
Supply chain attacks did not spare information security companies. In early February,
the French company Stormshield reported that its systems had been hacked.
Attackers compromised the technical support portal. As a result of the incident, the
source code of the Stormshield Network Security software firewall was stolen. It can
be assumed that the attackers will examine the stolen code to find vulnerabilities
in the software. In early January 2021, Malwarebytes, which produces information
security tools, suffered due to a vulnerability in an application that has privileged
access to Microsoft Office 365 and Azure. Note that in half of the attacks on this
industry, attackers exploited software vulnerabilities.
Ransomware operators were involved in 56% of the malware attacks. The most
significant incidents in terms of consequences occurred with the American IT
15
service provider CompuCom and the Canadian IoT solution provider Sierra Wireless.
In the first case, due to the attack using the DarkSide ransomware, the company
suspended the provision of services to some customers. The company estimates
that it will have to spend up to $20 million to eliminate all of the consequences, and
the expected loss of revenue ranges from 5 to 8 million. Sierra Wireless, which was
also affected by the ransomware attack, was forced to stop production, and the
company's website was unavailable for two weeks. In addition, the company had to
withdraw its financial forecast for Q1 2021, as it now needs to be adjusted.
Ransomware
56%
RATs
31%
fi
Spyware
25%
fi
Banking trojans
13%
fi
Loaders
13%
fi
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
© Positive Technologies
Figure 15. Malware types used in attacks on IT companies
The share of RATs increased by 23 percentage points compared to Q4 2020. In one
of the campaigns, the attackers distributed it under the guise of Xcode, a free IDE
for the Apple ecosystem. SentinelOne researchers discovered this malware in the
legitimate project TabBarInteraction. The campaign is aimed at developers who will
then inadvertently distribute remote control malware to their clients as part of the
project. Another attack aimed at software developers involved hacking the official
PHP Git repository and adding malicious commits. It is noteworthy that the attackers
managed to add well-known developers' signatures to the commits.
Popular cloud services that facilitate interaction and simplify companies' IT
infrastructure also became a favorite target for attackers. The reason for this
phenomenon is that by attacking a cloud service provider, hackers can gain access
to the customers' data, as it happened, for example, during the January incident
with the Bonobos clothing store. The store suffered a data leak due to an attack on
the cloud service provider that the company used to store customer credentials and
personal data. A similar incident occurred with the network equipment manufacturer
Ubiquiti.
According to the United States Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency,
hackers managed to find a way to bypass two-factor authentication to compromise
cloud services. This was achieved through a "pass the cookie" attack.
Pass the cookie
In this type of attack, attackers intercept the session of an already
authenticated user or use stolen session cookies to authenticate with a web
resource.
fi
16