Conclusion
TICK is a cyberespionage group that should not be considered dormant nor inactive, but a persistent
entity with advanced skill levels and the financial capacity to support its activities. Besides setting
themselves apart from cybercriminal groups only concerned with yielding profits from any potential
victim, they ensure that their intended targets are of high-value, as evidenced by the extensive verification
routine they perform once a target has been compromised. In addition, they have developed new malware
families (such as Avenger and down_new) that are based on the malware families they previously used,
with specific PDB strings that stand out with every deployment of Operation ENDTRADE. By using them
in consecutively executed attacks and being able to steal legitimate emails for spear phishing, targeting
Japanese companies and their foreign subsidiaries in China may only be one the many operations they
have lined up. This may ring true considering a number of their attack routines and malware appear to still
be in development and testing phase.
Furthermore, while TICK has developed a considerable number of malware families, we expect them
to develop more malware for future attacks, with features to prevent identification from the analyzed
routines, as evidenced by some of their signatures in Operation ENDTRADE. First, their new malware’s
callback URI paths are comparably similar to their previously deployed malware. Second, they continue
using legitimate sites as their C&C server sites to download payloads from. Third, one of their preferred
techniques – steganography – is not only used in every attack in the past but showed a number of
versions and enhancements for this specific operation. Studying their victims’ environments, we found a
number of their characteristic tools mentioned by other cybersecurity companies in thwarting their attack
attempts. Finally, one of their backdoors (DATPER) and trojans (BBK) used the same website as their C&C.
The diversity and scope of their malware families highlight the varying degrees of proficiency this group
can employ to remain undetected and exfiltrate data. This is evident in the group’s use of legitimate and
publicly-available tools in order to make it more difficult for inexperienced IT teams, research teams, or
even dedicated incident response teams to trace, analyze, and detect the attacks. Technical details from
the malware routines also heavily imply that these attacks may just be the tip of the iceberg: more attacks
can be expected, with improved versions compared to what we have seen. Industries and business
sectors should make it a priority to invest and install advanced security measures, strengthen their security
policies and procedures, and improve their employees’ security knowledge and awareness.
43 | Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing Classified Data
We strongly advise that enterprises develop and implement monitoring systems and establish a clear chain
of command. This operation not only highlights the importance of these two, but also observed that when
attacks like these occur, affected organizations find it difficult to take control of their foreign subsidiaries’
security systems. In addition, companies with small overseas offices may not have sufficient resources
to isolate and investigate the infected machines, making monitoring weak and incident response difficult.
Enterprises and critical infrastructures will always be targeted by persistent attacks. Therefore, it is
paramount that organizations become aware and knowledgeable on the latest threats that may be used
against them and the necessary measures that can be established to defend against them. When sensitive
information and assets are stolen, it not only affects the targeted group but all the business partners, and
as this campaign showed, it can easily become an economic or safety concern.
44 | Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing Classified Data