Search
Security advisories | Apr 13, 2021
Business professionals search google for free office forms (invoices,
questionnaires, and receipts) but get served a RAT
eSentire, a leading cybersecurity solutions provider, reported today that business
professionals are currently being lured to hacker-controlled websites, hosted on Google
Sites, and inadvertently installing a known, emerging Remote Access Trojan (RAT).
eSentire has detected several incidents in the past week. The attack starts with the
potential victim performing a search for business forms such as invoices, questionnaires,
and receipts. Unlike the LinkedIn spearphishing campaign eSentire reported last week
that utilized email and LinkedIn channels, this campaign lays long-standing traps for
victims using Google search redirection and the drive-by- download method. Once
the RAT is on the victim’s computer and activated, the threat actors can send commands
and upload additional malware to the infected system, such as ransomware, a credential
stealer, a banking trojan, or simply use the RAT as a foothold into the victim’s network.
Upon attempting to download the alleged document template, users are redirected,
unknowingly, to a malicious website where the RAT malware is hosted. eSentire’s Threat
Response Unit (TRU) discovered over 100,000 unique web pages that contain popular
business terms/particular keywords: template, invoice, receipt, questionnaire, and
resume. In a precursory search, 70,000 unique web pages included the mention of either
template or invoice . These common business terms serve as keywords for the threat
actors’ search optimization strategy, convincing Google’s web crawler that the intended
content meets conditions for a high PageRank score.
Once the target lands on a site controlled by the hacker, the page shows download buttons
for the document template they were searching. When clicked, the business professional
is redirected (unknowingly) to a malicious website which serves up an executable
disguised as a pdf document or a word document. In the incident which eSentire
investigated, when the executable (disguised as a pdf) was launched by the user, they
simultaneously installed the SolarMarker RAT (also referred to as Yellow Cockatoo,
https://www.esentire.com/security-advisories/hackers-flood-the-web-with-100-000-malicious-pages-promising-professionals-free-business-forms-but-are-deliv… 1/11
4/21/2021 eSentire | Hackers Flood the Web with 100,000 Malicious Pages,…
Jupyter, and Polazert) and a complimentary copy of the Slim PDF reader application.
Slim PDF is a legitimate application for reading pdfs. The pdf reader application is
installed by the threat actors, either in an effort to convince the victim of the legitimacy of
the document they were seeking or as a distraction from the installation of the RAT. As
with any RAT, once SolarMarker is active, the threat actors can send commands and
upload additional files to the infected system. The TRU has not yet observed actions-onobjectives following a SolarMarker infection, but suspect any number of possibilities,
including ransomware, credential theft, fraud, or as a foothold into the victim networks
for espionage or exfiltration operations.