Energy
In late December 2012, security researcher Eric Romang published a blog, reporting that gas turbine
manufacturer Capstone Turbine became a victim of a watering-hole attack. Symantec’s investigation confirmed
Romang’s findings that during the attack, Capstone Turbine’s legitimate domain, capstoneturbine.com, was
serving an exploit for a zero-day bug known as the Microsoft Internet Explorer ‘CDwnBindInfo’ Use-After-Free
Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2012-4792). Users who browsed Capstone’s website using vulnerable
versions of Internet Explorer at the time were ultimately compromised with the Sakurel payload. Sakurel
provided Black Vine with access to the compromised computers and their information. As previously mentioned,
the Sakurel sample seen in this attack was digitally signed by MICRO DIGITAL INC.
Details about the Sakurel malware samples associated with the attack are as follows:
• MD5 hash: 61fe6f4cb2c54511f0804b1417ab3bd2
• C&C domain: web.viprclod.com
• Vulnerability: CVE-2012-4792
• Compile time: December 8, 2012 07:54:44
Additionally, the C&C domain used in the attack, webvipr.clod.com, may be a typo-squat domain designed to
pose as the legitimate domain VipeCloud.com. The legitimate website belongs to VipeCloud, which provides
sales and marketing automation as a service. This could be a coincidence or re-used infrastructure from other
unknown attacks. However, the domain was registered on December 10, 2012, just two days after the Sakurel
samples that were used in energy-related attacks were compiled. Regardless, the C&C server theme is not
constant with themes we would expect to see with energy-related targets.
The following information was used to register the attacker’s C&C domain viprclod.com on December 10, 2012:
• Domain name: VIPRECLOD.COM
• Created on : 10-Dec-12
• Expires on: 10-Dec-13
• Last Updated on: 10-Dec-12
• Administrative contact:
o moon, today todaymoon321@gmail.com
o xingfudadao
o sitemo, ai no 236963
o Tanzania
Capstone Turbine is a US-based gas turbine manufacturer which specializes in micro turbine power along
with heating and cooling cogeneration systems. Capstone Turbine’s intellectual property in the research and
development of energy and power technologies is likely what made it a target for cyberespionage.
On December 24, 2012, Black Vine targeted a second turbine power and technology manufacturer. While the
details of this attack cannot be publicly disclosed, Sakurel was also used in this attack. Considering how Back
Vine conducted multiple waves of zero-day attacks and targeted turbine manufacturers, it’s likely that the attack
group’s primary targeted industries at the time were involved in energy-related technologies.
Page 11
The Black Vine cyberespionage group