Respond and Restore
Ukraine Attack
The cyber attacks performed against three Ukrainian oblenergos were well planned and highly coordinated. The
attacks consisted of several major elements with both enabling and supporting attack segments. The attackers
were remote and interacted with multiple locations within each of their targets to include central and regional
facilities. Distribution utilities traditionally have both central business and engineering office(s) and a number of
branch facilities used to support line crew, meter reading, bill payment, and distributed supervisory control
operations. Certain types of cyber attacks designed to maliciously take over and operate a SCADA DMS may be
best performed in a distributed fashion at the lowest or most direct level (from a local dispatch and SCADA
server out to the substations that are being monitored and controlled). Preparing for a high-tempo, multifaceted
attack is not easy and it requires careful plan review, testing, integrated defense, and operations exercises.
Rehearsing steps to more quickly sever or prevent remote access, to safely separate the ICSs from connected
networks, or to contain and isolate suspicious hosts is critical.
The Next Attack
The next attack may purposefully differ in its approach to throw off or defeat the defender’s plans and
expectations. It is critical that defenders exercise and train against different scenarios and be aware that
attackers are co-adaptive and creative. It is vital to develop capabilities with flexibility in mind.
Opportunities to Disrupt/Restore
Operations personnel must be involved in planning for restoration from a successful Stage 2 ICS attack. Concepts
to consider from an electric operations and engineering perspective include the following and are graphically
depicted in Figure 11:


Cyber contingency analysis: Continuous analysis and preparing the system for the next event.


Cyber failure planning: Modeling and testing cyber system response to network and asset outages.


Cyber conservative operations: Intentionally eliminating planned and unplanned changes as well as
stopping any potentially impactful processes.


37 For a good discussion on exploits and malicious firmware updates for industrial ethernet switches see the research by Eireann Leverett,
Colin Cassidy, and Robert M. Lee in the DEFCON presentation “Switches Get Stitches” here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yaY3rtA37Uc
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
16
Defense Lessons Learned – Passive and Active Defenses


Cyber load shed: Eliminating unnecessary network segments, communications, and cyber assets that are
not operationally necessary.


Cyber Root Cause Analysis (RCA) : RCA forensics to determine how an impactful event occurred and


ensure it is contained.


Cyber Blackstart: Cyber asset base configurations and bare metal build capability to restore the cyber
system to a critical service state.


Cyber mutual aid: Ability to utilize information sharing and analysis centers (ISACs), peer utilities, law
enforcement and intelligence agencies, as well as contractors and vendors to respond to large-scale


events.
Figure 11: Summary of the opportunities to disrupt the attack
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
17