4.2. Moose habitat— Targeted devices
Linux/Moose requires a Linux-based system because of its dependency on µClibc, a popular C library
for embedded systems. Plenty of embedded systems are now running Linux — from consumer routers
to carrier-grade network gear through Internet of Things (IoT) appliances.
Some affected devices are easier to identify than others. For instance: upon launch, the malware
checks whether the file ~~/home/hik/start.sh~~ exists on disk. This path is usually associated with
Hik Vision DVRs which are being targeted by embedded malware. Another means of identification
is to look at what routers support the methods used to perform DNS Hijacking. Last but not least is
to look at what devices are affected by the threats that Linux/Moose tries to eliminate when it runs.
Here is a list of vendors we know are being targeted:
Vendors Confirmed as Being Affected
Actiontec, Hik Vision, Netgear, Synology, TP-Link, ZyXEL, Zhone
IoT but even medical devices
Based on recent security research we have enough evidence to state that even
medical devices like the Hospira Drug Infusion Pump could be infected with
Linux/Moose. Of course, just as is the case with IoT, these devices are currently
more collateral damage than deliberate targeting.
Due to time constraints and hardware availability, we have been unable to confirm so far
that certain vendors are definitely targeted. We would love to be able to crowdsource an accurate
targeted vendors list. See the full list of potentially targeted vendors in the appendixes for vendor
names and validation instructions.
As to why some of these devices would ever be attacked by the malware? Well, there is the malware’s
ability to reach behind frewallsi but we must not forget what we have learned in 2012 via
the Carna Botnet:
A lot of devices and services we have seen during our research should never be connected
to the public Internet at all. As a rule of thumb, if you believe that "nobody would
connect that to the Internet, really nobody", there are at least 1000 people who did.
Whenever you think "that shouldn’t be on the Internet but will probably be found a few
times" it’s there a few hundred thousand times. Like half a million printers, or a Million
Webcams, or devices that have root as a root password.
—
Internet Census 2012 (Carna botnet)