A human toll of the disease, fueled numerous incidents of malicious cyber
activity. The ransomware adversaries that proliferated in 2020 are as motivated as
ever, evidenced by the introduction of increasingly damaging tactics, techniques and
procedures (TTPs). Finally, as 2020 came to a close, a major supply chain software
attack racked the U.S. public sector and adjacent industries.
TWISTED SPIDER’s adoption of data extortion tactics was singled out in early
2020 as a direction other eCrime actors might pursue to capitalize on ransomware
infections — a preview of what would become, without exaggeration, an explosion
of similar activity throughout the year. The allure of big game hunting (BGH) —
ransomware campaigns aimed at high-value targets — dominated the ecosystem
of eCrime enablers in 2020, spurring the market for network access brokers. BGH
trends also disrupted traditional targeted eCrime behavior — as seen by threat
actor CARBON SPIDER’s shift away from the targeting point-of-sale (POS) systems
to join the BGH ranks. WIZARD SPIDER — a BGH actor and established eCrime
“megacorp” — sustained their high-tempo operations to become the most reported
eCrime adversary for the second year in a row.
Not even the global pandemic could slow the pace of targeted intrusions in 2020,
nor could the large number of public disclosures regarding adversary activity in both
2019 and 2020. In continuation of a trend highlighted in 2019, Chinese adversaries
targeted telecommunications, with WICKED PANDA having another prolific year,
despite indictments against individuals associated with their operations. As
expected, Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) adversaries sustained
their currency-generation efforts. Interestingly, the blending of eCrime and targeted
intrusion tactics previously associated with these North Korean actors and some
Russian adversaries was also observed from Iran-nexus PIONEER KITTEN.
To tackle these threats, CrowdStrike Intelligence has offered an unparalleled level
of coverage, adding 19 named adversaries to bring the total of tracked actors
across the globe to 149. In instances where CrowdStrike Intelligence lacks sufficient
information or evidence to assign an adversary name, targeted intrusion activity
is tracked as a “cluster.” In 2020, the number of tracked activity clusters under
continued monitoring rose to 24.
Introducing the eCrime Index
The eCrime ecosystem is an active and diffuse economy of financially motivated
entities that engage in myriad criminal activities in order to generate revenue. The
market dynamics as observed by the CrowdStrike Intelligence team over the past
several years are fluid; as new mechanisms and schemes are devised to generate
revenue, new avenues of monetization are identified, and as the global geopolitical and
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 7
economic landscape changes, adversaries evolve their tactics to maximize profits. This
underground economy parallels global markets in many ways. In order to understand the
ebbs and flows of this ecosystem, CrowdStrike has devised a computed value to assess
the state of eCrime. The eCrime Index (ECX) is based on various observables, weighted
by impact, that are continuously monitored by CrowdStrike subject matter experts.
The ECX helps identify notable changes that can then be further investigated. Analysis
results of such events and the continuous tracker to monitor changes will be shared on
the Adversary Universe website.
eCRIME INDEX, FEB. 22, 2021