Santa APT
Cloudsek, a Canadian Cyber Security firm, detected the activity of a suspected criminal
advanced persistent threat group over the 2015 holiday season. The group, dubbed Santa APT
because some of their malware masqueraded as Santa Claus applications, steals intellectual
property for economic gain. Cloudsek believes that the malware developers are located in
South Asia.
The group came to the attention of security professionals who noticed them selling
information stealer malware, capable of jumping air gapped systems, on underground
markets. The attackers were using the malware to steal classified data from software
companies and government organizations. The malware collects files and screenshots and
stores them in hidden files on any connected USB device. When the device is connected to an
internet enabled system, the data is sent back to command and control infrastructure located
in Germany. Empty voice recording and key log files on the C2C servers suggest that the
malware is still under development. Cloudsek claims to have found the malware attributed to
the group masquerading as Santa Claus mobile games, which had infected about 8000
systems. The malware stole contact lists, SMS messages, call records, location information,
65
calendars, pictures, video, environment readings, camera specifications, browser history,
program information, sim card information, and device status. The mobile malware
communicated with the C2C infrastructure via HTTP about once a minute. The C2C servers
corresponding to the mobile infrastructure had separate login sections for user profiles and for
administrative profiles. The victim information was organized according to user and then
according to data type. The attacker could also arm the malware to send them an SMS alert if
the victim left a regional area. This could allow the actor to track whether a victim has left
home or the office, in real time. The adversary could also receive regular updates if a particular
victim received an SMS message or phone call.
Cloudsek used passive DNS to track the group activity of a South Asian company that
sells spy software to monitor employees. The company is recruiting mobile application
developers for iPhone and Android.