Deep Panda / Black Vine / Pupa
Deep Panda began attacking the healthcare, aerospace, and energy sectors around

Deep Panda is believed to be a Chinese state sponsored group. Symantec believes

that Black Vine may be affiliated with a Beijing IT security organization called Topsec.
Topsec is a research institute with sites across China. Topsec focuses on information
security research, training, auditing, and security products. It also hosts a hacking
competition (from which they hire hackers). It is possible that some members of Topsec
are affiliated with Deep Panda.
Deep Panda attacks tend to have massive impacts and they accrue proportional media
attention. In order to conduct multiple sizable campaigns against United States Federal
government agencies and major western health care providers for extended time periods,
Deep Panda must have considerable resources at their disposal. In illustration, it is possible
that Deep Panda was concurrently engaged in cyber-attacks against the United States Office
of Personnel Management, the Anthem healthcare network, United Airlines, and other
entities. In December 2015, the Chinese government announced that it had arrested the
actors behind the OPM breach and that Deep Panda was not responsible. Many in the
political and cybersecurity spheres remain skeptical that the arrests are legitimate.
14
Deep Panda conducts watering hole attacks; zero-day exploits, and spear phishing
campaigns. The group also utilizes some of the exploits and tools from the Elderwood
platform. A vast majority, ~80%, of Deep Panda targets are American. Deep Panda targets
government agencies, the aerospace sector, the healthcare sector, financial organizations,
technology firms, and energy entities (primarily gas and electric manufacturers).
In the United States health care sector, Deep Panda has attacked VAE, Anthem,
Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, and Carefirst. In the recent 2014-2015 Anthem breach, the
group exfiltrated ~80 million patient records. Information exfiltrated from Anthem includes
social security numbers and other personal identifiable information or personal health
information. It is believed that the Axiom group also attacked Anthem at the same time as
Deep Panda, but with a different malware and along different vectors. The attack appears as
a coordinated effort. Further, enough similarities exist between the meticulous planning and
malware employed by the two groups, that many security firms hypothesize that they are
both part of the same group. There is a strong possibility that the groups are affiliated.
Deep Panda is also believed to be responsible for the two 2015 OPM breaches. The
breaches resulted in the exposure of the personal information contained in the SF-86 forms
of 22.1 million current and former United States Federal employees. 5.6 million fingerprint
files were also stolen. Deep Panda breached United Airlines in 2015 and stole departure and
destination records. The health, OPM, and travel records stolen by Deep Panda can be
aggregated to catastrophically impact the United States government over time. The
adversary or their parent nation state can build a database of US employees for espionage
purposes. Further, the information can be used to identify United States agents in the
country or to identify Chinese assets who assist United States intelligence efforts. Even
though their systems were not compromised and their agents’ information was not
included in the breach, the CIA has already began retracting agents from the field in
response to the cyber-attacks. The CIA made this decision because State Department
records were stolen in the breach and the attacker could thereby discover embassy
employees who were not included in the State Department records and capture those
individuals as spies or coerce their behavior. In this manner, Deep Panda has pushed
forward the boundaries of cyber-warfare to achieve a measurable “physical” nation-state
response. Further, physical warfare has been suggested in the United States in response to
the cyber-attacks.
Deep Panda relies on the Sakurel Trojan, the Hurix Trojan, and the Mivast backdoor in
its attacks. Deep Panda is believed to have developed all of the malware themselves.
Characteristics in the malware code are shared between all three malware. Further, each
malware is capable of opening a named pipe back door and contains tools to collect and
15
exfiltrate system data, the ability to execute arbitrary code, the ability to create, modify, and
delete registry keys.
The malwares are similar in that they utilized droppers that masquerade as
installers for legitimate software applications like Adobe Reader, Juniper VPN, and
Microsoft ActiveX Control. In some cases, a loading bar displays and then the user
redirects to a login page for the associated software. The malwares contain measures
to avoid detection. The malwares self-obfuscate as technology related applications
such as media applications or VPN technologies. The malwares establish persistent
presence on the system, deploy remote access Trojans (RATs) such as the Derusbi
malware, and feature tools to record and seize user sessions. Tools such as PwDump
and Scanline are included to steal user credentials, to allow the actor to escalate their
privileges, to let the actor create unmonitored accounts, and to assist the attacker in
lateral movements to systems across the network. Symantec believes that all three
malware belong to the same family and that they have been updated and
differentially developed over time by the same team. The malware is usually signed
by the DTOPTOOLZ Co. signature belonging to a Korean software company. Domains
and C2 servers often feature the names of Marvel comic book characters as the
register.