6 Discussion
6.1 Specific Threats to ICS
The honeynet afforded us a rich data set for consideration. The data offered an opportunity to observe a variety of different activities with over 16 GB of traffic exchanged with tens of thousands
of external hosts. As the focus of this effort was the enumeration and characterization of threats to
ICS, it is worth discussing how these threats manifested within the data considered. Notably,
while the data showed a variety of malicious traffic, few ICS-specific threats were observed. The
vast majority of traffic was generic scanning of some of the most commonly used ports across industries, such as Telnet, Secure Shell (SSH), Virtual Network Computing (VNC), Server Message
Block (SMB), and other protocols. While this is relevant to ICS network defense, it does not necessarily reveal ICS-specific threats.
Analytic pivoting and AG creation unmasked potential threats to ICS. It was helpful to examine
traffic exchanged on common ICS ports as well as by hosts involved in ICS-focused scanning activities. While scanning activity can indicate threat potential, it ultimately reveals the adversary’s
capabilities to a limited extent. The PCAPs contained very little data on specific attempts to interact with ICS devices, exploit vulnerabilities, or install malware. One possible explanation is that
an adversary would not be likely to compromise an ICS device directly from the Internet. Most
ICS attack campaigns follow the two-phased approach (Assante and Lee 2015). This leads to a
second possibility: the honeynet did not attract attacks on ICS due to its configuration.
6.2 Challenges in Configuring an ICS Honeynet
Given the lack of ICS-focused surveillance—and especially attacks—observed in the PCAP data,
it seems plausible that the honeynet was not optimized for collecting this type of data. As mentioned above, analyzing the traffic revealed several important details, primarily that a number of
the hosts appeared to be standard Windows or Linux machines without an obvious ICS purpose. It
is possible that some of the hosts with unknown configuration details were emulating ICS devices.
However, there was insufficient evidence in the data set to support this view. Based on the configuration and behavior of the hosts observed in the data set, it appears that this honeynet was a
“low-interaction” honeynet. That is, the honeypot machines provide little to no response to requests made by external hosts, and as a result, an adversary is usually unable to compromise the
hosts. Provos and Holz observe that such a configuration is advantageous for its low resource demand as well as the decreased risk inherent in denying attackers an opportunity to compromise
even this isolated network. However, the tradeoff made for these benefits is that low-interaction
honeynets generally provide sparser attack data. They are unlikely to capture evidence of zero-day
exploits or other high-value information (Provos and Holz 2008).
Although the evidence supports the view that this is a low-interaction honeynet, it does not intrinsically follow that it yields no actionable information about attacks on ICS. We highlighted evidence of ICS-focused network scanning and apparent malware C2, showing that a variety of useful threat data was present within the PCAP files. Nevertheless, it seems that relatively little new
information on ICS defense was obtainable from the honeynet. It is possible that the low-interaction nature of the system caused scanning and enumeration tools to report that this was not an ICS
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 22
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited
network. Additionally, a cursory examination of the source code of open source ICS scanning
tools suggests that these tools expect very specific responses from a host to confirm that it is indeed the device in question. This likely inhibited further action by external actors who might otherwise attempt to compromise ICS devices.
6.3 Implications for the Defense of ICS Networks
The configuration of this honeynet yielded a relatively small amount of useful intelligence on ICS
threats. An effective ICS honeynet should employ techniques to convince potential adversaries
that it truly hosts ICS devices. This will likely require a higher level of interaction with external
hosts than we observed in the PCAP data. It is also likely that to be effective, an ICS honeynet
must faithfully emulate actual ICS devices and protocols. A passive host may collect information
on scanning and automated exploit attempts, but this does not afford a wealth of ICS-specific
threat intelligence. Another option is to place actual ICS devices within the honeynet, which have
arguably the greatest probability of collecting realistic attack data. Either option may yield useful
information. Emulation considerably increases the complexity in configuring and maintaining the
honeynet, while the use of real ICS devices would likely incur substantially higher costs than either a passive or an emulated setup. However, this may reflect the difficulties inherent in using a
honeynet, a proven technique for determining network threats. Given this constraint, defenders
may wish to weigh the value of the data obtained against the cost and complexity of maintaining
an effective ICS honeynet.
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 23
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited