Table of Contents INTRODUCTION
Watch our CEO Lior Div's keynote on the operation.
In 2018, 30% of the telecommunications providers reported sensitive customer information was
stolen due to an attack. These telecommunications providers have been expanding in size, to the
point where In the past thirteen years, mobile cellular phone subscribers have quadrupled in size
and sit at 8 billion subscribers today. Due to their wide availability and the fundamental service
they bring, telecommunications providers have become critical infrastructure for the majority of
world powers.
Ask the researchers questions about this attack during their live webinar.
Sign up for the Operation Soft Cell webinar.
Much like telecommunication providers, many other critical infrastructure organizations provide a
valuable targets for nation state threat actors, due to their high impact. In studies, nearly a quarter
of critical infrastructure organizations reported they had been hit by nation state attacks and 60%
said disruptive cyber attacks are among the threats they are most worried about.
Threat actors, especially those at the level of nation state, are seeking opportunities to attack
these organizations, conducting elaborate, advanced operations to gain leverage, seize strategic
assets, and collect information. When successful, these attacks often have huge implications.
Last year, we identified a threat actor that has been operating in telecommunications provider
environments for at least two years. We performed a post-incident review of the attacks and were
able to identify changes in the attack patterns along with new activity every quarter.
The threat actor mainly sought to obtain CDR data (call logs, cell tower locations, etc.) belonging
to specific individuals from various countries. This type of targeted cyber espionage is usually the
work of nation state threat actors.
We’ve concluded with a high level of certainty that the threat actor is affiliated with China and is
likely state sponsored. The tools and techniques used throughout these attacks are consistent
with several Chinese threat actors, such as APT10, a threat actor believed to operate on behalf of
the Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS).
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 3/21
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers
The threat actor changed activity every quarter.
The attack began with a web shell running on a vulnerable, publicly-facing server, from which the
attackers gathered information about the network and propagated across the network. The threat
actor attempted to compromise critical assets, such as database servers, billing servers, and the
active directory. As malicious activity was detected and remediated against, the threat actor
stopped the attack.
The second wave of the attack hit several months later with similar infiltration attempts, along with
a modified version of the web shell and reconnaissance activities. A game of cat and mouse
between the threat actor and the defenders began, as they ceased and resumed their attack 2
more times in the span of a 4 month period.