Introduction
The MyKings/DarkCloud/Smominru botnet (which we will refer to as MyKings) has been active for
a couple of years. While individual modules have been described in a handful of publications in the
past, this paper does not focus on the in-depth analysis of individual malicious components used
during an attack. Instead, we look at the interaction between the various tooling elements used by
the MyKings attackers, and their roles in the infection process, to provide a full picture of the
operation of the botnet.
The botnet usually delivers cryptominers and remote access Trojans (RATs). Recently the threat
actors behind MyKings added bootkit functionality to avoid detection and establish persistence
that's difficult to remove or mitigate.
The earliest MyKings activity goes back to 2016 and it has been active ever since, but we found
some overlap in samples and server infrastructure with an earlier campaign the same threat actors
are alleged to have been involved in, called Photominer.
Key findings of this research are the following:
The botnet spreads by attacking weak username/password combinations in MySQL, MS
SQL, telnet, ssh, IPC, WMI, RDP, and in closed-circuit TV servers, and additionally uses the
EternalBlue exploit for lateral movement.

During the initial infection processes, the botnet secures the computer; removes

processes, files, and settings belonging to malware families operated by other threat
actors; and closes the communication ports that could be used to re-infect the computer


The botnet comprises about 45,000 infected hosts.


The main payloads are the Forshare Trojan and various Monero cryptominers.


According to earlier reports the criminals made about 9,000 XMR in the past, estimated to


be about US$3 million.

MyKings' current income is more moderate (mainly due to the huge drop in Monero

exchange rate), but the botnet is still mining about US$300 per day.

The criminals behind this botnet prefer to use open source or other public domain

software and have enough skills to make customization and enhancements to the source
code.
The main targets of the botnet are countries in Asia, but we could find infections all over the
world.
4