Technical Analysis
The Linux version of Winnti is comprised of two files: a main backdoor (libxselinux) and a
library (libxselinux.so) used to hide it’s activity on an infected system.
As with other versions of Winnti, the core component of the malware doesn’t natively
provide the operators with distinct functionality⁸. This component is primarily designed to
handle communications and the deployment of modules directly from the command-and
control servers. During our analysis, we were unable to recover any active plugins.
However, prior reporting⁹ suggests that the operators commonly deploy plugins for
remote command execution, file exfiltration, and socks5 proxying on the infected host.
We expect similar functionality to be leveraged via additional modules for Linux.
‘libxselinux.so’ — the userland rootkit
https://medium.com/chronicle-blog/winnti-more-than-just-windows-and-gates-e4f03436031a 1/8
5/16/2019 Winnti: More than just Windows and Gates – Chronicle Blog – Medium
The library used to hide Winnti’s system activity is a copy of the open-source userland
rootkit Azazel¹⁰, with minor changes. When executed, it will register symbols for multiple
commonly used functions, including: open(), rmdir(), and unlink(), and modify their
returns to hide the malware’s operations. Below is a side-by-side comparison of the
Azazel source code and the relevant function decompilation from ‘libxselinux.so’.
Distinct changes to Azazel by the Winnti developers include the addition of a function
named ‘Decrypt2’, which is used to decode an embedded configuration similar to the
core implant. Unlike standard Azazel which is configured to hide network activity based
https://medium.com/chronicle-blog/winnti-more-than-just-windows-and-gates-e4f03436031a 2/8
5/16/2019 Winnti: More than just Windows and Gates – Chronicle Blog – Medium
on port ranges, the Winnti-modified version keeps a list of process identifiers and
network connections associated with the malware’s activity. This modification likely
serves to simplify the operator’s sample configuration process by not having to denote
specific ports to hide.
Strings within this sample associated with the malware’s operations are encoded using a
single-byte XOR encoding. The following is an example Python function to decode these
strings.
libxselinux
Winnti Linux variant’s core functionality is within ‘libxselinux’. Upon execution, an
embedded configuration is decoded from the data section using a simple XOR cipher.
An example Python function to decode this configuration is shown below:
The decoded configuration is similar in structure to the version Kaspersky classifies as
Winnti 2.0¹¹, as well as samples in the 2015 Novetta report¹². Embedded in this sample’s
configuration three command-and-control server addresses and two additional strings
https://medium.com/chronicle-blog/winnti-more-than-just-windows-and-gates-e4f03436031a 3/8
5/16/2019 Winnti: More than just Windows and Gates – Chronicle Blog – Medium
we believe to be campaign designators. Winnti ver. 1, these values were designated as
‘ tag ’ and ‘ group’. A sample decoded configuration is shown below:
Winnti Linux samples identified so far fall under three distinct campaign designators:
For context, embedded Winnti campaign designators have ranged from target names,
geographic areas, industry, and profanity.
https://medium.com/chronicle-blog/winnti-more-than-just-windows-and-gates-e4f03436031a 4/8
5/16/2019 Winnti: More than just Windows and Gates – Chronicle Blog – Medium