Kuwait attack chain
The first signs of compromise were several reverse TCP files and PowerShell commands that executed some
base64 compressed code, specific to the Metasploit framework. Although difficult to speculate, it’s possible that the
threat actors used tainted documents with shellcodes to compromise the victim, potentially disseminated through
spearphishing emails.
Once the victims were compromised, attackers started to bring reconnaissance tools for network scanning (“xnet.
exe”, “shareo.exe”) and credential gathering (as “mnl.exe” or “mimi32.exe”) or tools with multiple functionalities, such
as CrackMapExec (for users’ enumeration, share listing, credentials harvesting and so on). This arsenal of tools helped
attackers move laterally inside the networks. Several methods were observed for this operation, either by using psexec
for remote service installation (also used by one of their custom tools “step-1.exe”), or through the use of RDP protocol,
a fact denoted by some unusual activity outside working hours and the presence of tools such as “rdpwinst.exe”.
Once they gained a foothold inside the company, they started to install custom modules: a modified Plink (wehsvc.exe)
installed as a service, as well as a backdoor (imjpuexa.exe), which was also executed as a service on some machines.
During our investigation, on some of the compromised stations we observed some unusual behavior performed under
a certain user account, leading us to believe the attackers managed to create a user account on the victims’ machine
and performed several malicious actions inside the network, using that account.
4
Bitdefender Whitepaper
Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia


Some of the tools mentioned were found in an unusual place (on the Desktop), indicating that the account was not
compromised.


Most activity occurs on Friday and Saturday, coinciding with the weekend in Middle East.


o Reviewing the incident timeline, we observed the following sequence: deployment of the modified
PuTTY tool (“ wehsvc.exe ”) on one of the machines; a specific user is created four days after, on the
same system; the user account is created on other systems from that network, during the following
days;

Beside the aforementioned tools, under this user account, we also saw the rdpwinst tool, which allows multiple rdp
sessions management, Smartftp Password Decryptor - the installer, and Navicat Premium, a database management

tool.
The attackers kept permanent communication with the victim, either through tools with proxy functionalities
(“mfevtpse.exe” and “mini.exe”) or through their own backdoor. As an interesting technique for C&C communication,
we observed that the C&C address is actually passed as a command line argument (both for some of the proxy tools
and for the backdoor itself).
Some traces indicate that the goal of the attack was data exploration and exfiltration (on some of the
victim’s tools such as Navicat, Winscp, found in an unusual location, namely “ %WINDOWS%\ime\en-us-ime ”, or
SmartFtpPasswordDecryptor were present on their systems). However, the lack of evidence, such as network logs,
makes it difficult to confirm this was indeed the attacker’s final objective.
A timeline of the attack for one of the organizations in Kuwait targeted by these threat actors is illustrated below.
5
Bitdefender Whitepaper
Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia