Three waves of attacks
Recent Waterbug activity can be divided into three distinct campaigns, characterized by
differing toolsets. One campaign involved a new and previously unseen backdoor called
Neptun (Backdoor.Whisperer). Neptun is installed on Microsoft Exchange servers and is
designed to passively listen for commands from the attackers. This passive listening
capability makes the malware more difficult to detect. Neptun is also able to download
additional tools, upload stolen files, and execute shell commands. One attack during this
campaign involved the use of infrastructure belonging to another espionage group
known as Crambus (aka OilRig, APT34).
A second campaign used Meterpreter, a publicly available backdoor along with two
custom loaders, a custom backdoor called photobased.dll, and a custom Remote
Procedure Call (RPC) backdoor. Waterbug has been using Meterpreter since at least
early 2018 and, in this campaign, used a modified version of Meterpreter, which was
encoded and given a .wav extension in order to disguise its true purpose.
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/waterbug-espionage-governments 1/9
6/21/2019 Waterbug: Espionage Group Rolls Out Brand-New Toolset in Attacks Against Governments | Symantec Blogs
The third campaign deployed a different custom RPC backdoor to that used in the
second campaign. This backdoor used code derived from the publicly available
PowerShellRunner tool to execute PowerShell scripts without using powershell.exe. This
tool is designed to bypass detection aimed at identifying malicious PowerShell usage.
Prior to execution, the PowerShell scripts were stored Base64-encoded in the registry.
This was probably done to avoid them being written to the file system.
Figure 1. Waterbug group rolls out fresh toolset in three new campaigns
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/waterbug-espionage-governments 2/9
6/21/2019 Waterbug: Espionage Group Rolls Out Brand-New Toolset in Attacks Against Governments | Symantec Blogs