RAR Archives with KerrDown
While investigating KerrDown we found multiple RAR files containing a variant of
the malware. We haven’t yet identified the delivery method or targets of this variant. The
attacker changed the downloader code by adding more stages and hiding each stage by
compression and encryption. They also changed the way to execute the malicious code
from an Office macro to the DLL side-loading technique through a legitimate program.
The RAR archive
(SHA256:040abac56542a2e0f384adf37c8f95b2b6e6ce3a0ff969e3c1d572e6b4053ff3)
has the Vietnamese file name ‘Don khieu nai.rar’ which translates to ‘Complaint letter’ in
English. The archive contains a legitimate older version of Microsoft Word (Microsoft Word
2007) executable file that is named ‘Noi dung
chi tiet don khieu nai gui cong ty.exe’ which translates to ‘Learn more about how to use
your company’ in English. The attacker used the DLL side loading technique to load a
malicious DLL by the older version of Microsoft Word. When opening the executable file in
the archive, it loads the malicious DLL in the same directory. The DLL executes multi
stage shellcodes and each shellcode employs various technique to hide the next
stage. The overall installation steps are below:
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/tracking-oceanlotus-new-downloader-kerrdown/ 5/13
3/15/2019 Tracking OceanLotus’ new Downloader, KerrDown

The Microsoft Word exe loads wwlib.dll in the same directory and executes ‘FMain’

function of the DLL.


The DLL decodes base64 encoded shellcode in the body and executes it.


The shellcode decompresses the second shellcode which is compressed with the


open source compression code UCL and execute it.


The second shellcode decrypts the third shellcode with AES.


The third shellcode retrieves the shellcode from the following remote location and


executes it: https://cortanasyn[.]com/Avcv

The fourth shellcode loads the embedded Cobalt Strike Beacon DLL in memory and

executes it.
Figure 6: Execution flow of sideloaded malicious downloader
Looking at the compile timestamps of all the KerrDown samples in our datasets we were
able to discern a couple of observations:
OceanLotus has been using the new downloader in their campaigns since at least
March 2018 and continues to actively use it in their campaigns. Figure 7 shows the
timeline of the KerrDown samples:
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/tracking-oceanlotus-new-downloader-kerrdown/ 6/13
3/15/2019 Tracking OceanLotus’ new Downloader, KerrDown
Figure 7: Downloader DLL compile time lines
While it is already widely believed that the OceanLotus group may originate from
Vietnam, we wanted to find possible working hour patterns from the samples in our
datasets. We plotted the compile times based on GMT +7 and found a clear pattern
of the possible working hours of the group. The OceanLotus group has a typical 9
AM to 6 PM working pattern with most samples compiled during this period of the
day. Figure 8 shows the malware compilation timestamps in GMT +7 for each
unique sample found in our dataset.
Figure 8: Malware compilation times in GMT +7
We also observed all the samples were compiled during the weekdays – between
Monday to Friday. Therefore, it is clear that the OceanLotus group works during
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/tracking-oceanlotus-new-downloader-kerrdown/ 7/13
3/15/2019 Tracking OceanLotus’ new Downloader, KerrDown
weekdays and takes a break during the weekends. Figure 9 shows the samples
compiled during the week.
Figure 9: Malware compilation during weekdays