Who are they after?
Targeting in Hebrew and English
Below are examples of lure documents presented to the victim while the malware infects the computer. The
content of the document is always copied from an online public source. The subject usually revolves around
defense and security or current affairs. Once in a while other topics or content are used - such as a public
corporate responsibility document published by Egged, an Israeli bus company; a part of an online Novel
published as a doc file; or pornographic materials.
Intelligence agencies succeeding in penetrating Hezbollah.exe
IDF survey Research Center

(C) All Rights reserved to C.S. Consultings Ltd, 2016. "ClearSky" www.clearskysec.com
Page 5 of 26
)unused condom( קונדום לא משומש
Live Webcam For Free
פצועים בהתנגשות אוטובוס ומשאית15שישה הרוגים וכ-.exe
(Six killed and 15 wounded in an collision between bus and tractor trailer)

(C) All Rights reserved to C.S. Consultings Ltd, 2016. "ClearSky" www.clearskysec.com
Page 6 of 26
Intelligence Report: Israel’s strategic position has improved.exe
דוח אחריות תאגידית וקיימות- אגד.exe
(corporate responsibility and sustainability report - Egged)
משחק אהבה לעיוורים-פרק ז'.exe
(blind love game – chapter G)

(C) All Rights reserved to C.S. Consultings Ltd, 2016. "ClearSky" www.clearskysec.com
Page 7 of 26
Ynet news
In a recent wave, a bit.ly link (https://bitly[.]com/1YRoIPX) was used instead of a direct link to the malware
(bit.ly is a legitimate URL shortening service). The shortened link statistics page enables us to learn about the
scope and the targeting of this threat actor.
We can see that the link was clicked 210 times, out of which 130 were in Israel, 32 in the United States, 9 in
the Palestinian authority, and 39 from 12 other countries (1-5 each).
The statistics do not necessarily reflect the exact distribution of targets: one target may click more than one
time; a proxy or VPN may skew the country count; and security researchers and bots may also comprise part
of the clicks. However, they do roughly represent the scope of the campaign: tens to few hundreds of
recipients - mostly in Israel, the United States and the Palestinian Territories.
This corresponds to the distribution we know of based on other sources such as direct reports from targets,
cases we have investigated, and open source intelligence.

(C) All Rights reserved to C.S. Consultings Ltd, 2016. "ClearSky" www.clearskysec.com
Page 8 of 26
Targeting in arabic
Below are examples of a document and a malicious email, targeting Arabic speaking victims.
ملخص تقرير المخابرات اليومي .
(Summary daily intelligence report)
القصة الحقيقية لموت القيادي فريد إسماعيل في سجن العقرب .exe
(The true story behind the death of the leader Farid Ismail in Scorpio prison)
When targeting Arab-speaking counties, most targets are in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, The Palestinian authority
and United Arab Emirates.
We have learned of more than 150 targets in these countries when investigating a breached email account
used by the attackers to send further malicious emails.
About 60% of targeted the email addresses where Gmail, Hotmail and Yahoo accounts. The rest of the email
accounts were in organizations - both private and governmental.

(C) All Rights reserved to C.S. Consultings Ltd, 2016. "ClearSky" www.clearskysec.com
Page 9 of 26
We searched for information about the targets in order to learn the interests of the attackers. Below are
examples of targeted individuals and organizations:


Several diplomats and employees of the ministry of foreign affairs in Egypt (20 emails addresses at
mfa.gov.eg, investment.gov.eg and other offices).


Egypt ’s Ambassador in the Ukraine, Counsellor of Permanent Mission of Egypt to the United Nations,


the Egyptian Embassy in New Zealand, and Egyptian Embassy in Pakistan.


An individual at the prime minister's office at the Palestinian Authority (both his Gmail account and
an account under pmo.pna.ps).


A senior official at the Birzeit University in the Palestinian Authority.


A consultant at West Bank and Gaza Group, The World Bank (worldbank.org).


Israeli banks.


Israeli military and defense companies.


Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia (2 email addresses at mofa.gov.ae).


Ministry of Foreign Affairs of United Arab Emirates (2 email addresses at mofa.gov.sa).


A banks in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates .


A Lobbying organizations in the UK.


Former politician in the UK .


A diplomat the European Commission (ec.europa.eu).


The Royal Hashemite Court in Jordan (rhc.jo).


An employee at the U.S. Department of State (state.gov).



(C) All Rights reserved to C.S. Consultings Ltd, 2016. "ClearSky" www.clearskysec.com
Page 10 of 26