Introduction
Operation Lotus Blossom describes a persistent cyber espionage campaign against
government and military organizations in Southeast Asia, stretching back over three
years. Nations we have identified as targeted in this campaign include Hong Kong,
Taiwan, Vietnam, the Philippines and Indonesia. The Lotus Blossom group deploys a
backdoor Trojan, named Elise, after the sports car made by Group Lotus PLC of the
United Kingdom.
The group relies on spear phishing attacks to infect its users, often using a malicious
office document and decoy file containing content relevant to the target’s occupation or
interests. The spear phishing attachment typically includes exploit code for a well-known
Microsoft [®] Office [®] vulnerability, CVE-2012-0158, which is used to install the Trojan
on the system and then display the decoy file, tricking the user into thinking the file
opened correctly. Example decoy files include:


A spreadsheet listing high-level officers in the Philippine Navy, along with their
dates of birth and mobile phone numbers.


The operational humanitarian and disaster response (HADR) plan for the
Armed Forces of the Philippines, stamped “Secret.”


An invitation to the screening of a film at the Norwegian embassy.


While we have not identified specific individuals responsible for these attacks, the
evidence suggests a nation state with a strong interest in Southeast Asia. Elise
is a custom backdoor Trojan, not readily available online. The tool appears to be
used exclusively by Lotus Blossom and was likely developed specifically for their
operations. The targets attacked by this group are almost exclusively military and
government organizations, whose data is most valuable to other nation states, rather
than criminal actors. The fact that this campaign has been ongoing for over three
years indicates the individuals behind the attack are well-resourced.
Using the Palo Alto Networks [®] AutoFocus [™] platform, which enables analysts to
correlate the results of the hundreds of millions of reports generated by the WildFire [™]
service, Unit 42 has linked over 50 individual attacks to this campaign.
The Operational Details section of this report provides details on specific attacks
against the targeted governments. The Elise Backdoor Analysis section contains
descriptions of how the three different variants of Elise operate and how they
changed over time. Domain names and IP addresses used for command and control,
as well as hashes of the files used in the attacks are included in the appendix.