Why Wannacry may never totally disappear, and why you should care
Wannacry crashed into the world in a fury on May 12, 2017, flooding the
internet and infecting businesses, hospitals, and universities in what had been,
until then, an attack of unprecedented speed and scale. The ransomware,
which various sources (including government intelligence agencies) accuse
the North Korean government of creating, caused havoc until a few security
researchers uncovered an Achilles heel in the malware: a kill switch, which
was unintentionally triggered when one of the researchers, Marcus Hutchins,
registered a Web domain name that was embedded in Wannacry's binary code.
Wannacry's advance suddenly halted, the attack spurred systems administrators
around the world to install a Microsoft-issued security patch that had been released
to the public a few months earlier. Ironically, many administrators had refrained
from installing the Windows update out of an abundance of caution, fearful of
disruptions the update might have caused. It was that caution that permitted those
unpatched systems to be infected and then to spread the infection further.
December 2019 16
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
But Wannacry's kill switch did not end the ransomware's existence. Far from
it, in fact. Within a few days of the initial attack, unknown individuals had made
haphazard modifications to the original ransomware program that bypassed
the kill switch domain. But these modified Wannacry binaries also carried with
them a new bug: in the course of their rapid spread across the internet, the
ransomware payload – the piece of Wannacry that caused all the damage in the
first place – was itself damaged. The ransomware could no longer encrypt all
your files, but it still had the capacity to spread to machines which had not yet
patched against the vulnerability that allowed it to spread in the first place.
Figure 13: An example of a WannaCry executable with two "no-operation" commands instead of a kill switch subroutine
Wannacry is still in circulation to this day. In fact, SophosLabs researchers
could not help but notice that we receive vast numbers of attempted
infection alerts (failures, all) every day. Today we receive more alerts about
Wannacry than any earlier wormable malware family, including Conficker,
which previously held the title for most obnoxiously persistent malware.
The continued presence of Wannacry detections does call attention to the fact
that, out there, on the internet, millions of machines remain unpatched against
a bug that was fixed more than two years ago. In that time, many far more
dangerous attacks have emerged. If these machines infected with Wannacry are
still out there, they're also susceptible to these newer types of attacks as well.
Wannacry's persistence is a cautionary tale and a reminder of the importance
of keeping every endpoint updated, and installing those updates as quickly as
feasible, lest those machines end up the victim of the next worm epidemic.
December 2019 17
Sophos 2020 Threat Report