Summary
Does North Korea have sufficient cyber infrastructure and cyber warfare capabilities to harm the
U.S. and its allies? While North Korea’s cyber warfare capabilities pale in comparison to those of
wealthier nations, the regime has made significant progress in developing its infrastructure and in
establishing cyber operations. The rate of this progress warrants a closer look at North Korea’s
motivations, TTPs, and capabilities. As noted above, North Korea views the U.S. and South Korea
as its primary adversaries. The U.S. and South Korea are high-tech nations with economies that
396 http://www.foxnews.com/world/2012/04/03/exclusive-cash-for-computers-is-un-busting-its-own-sanctions-in-north-korea/
397 http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Security-Watch/2013/1019/In-cyberarms-race-North-Korea-emerging-as-a-power-not-a-pushover/(page)/4
depend heavily on technology. [398] In contrast, North Korea does not have a high tech culture. For
these reasons, we should not overestimate the regime’s advanced cyber capability, yet we should
never underestimate the potential impact of North Korea utilizing less advanced, quick-and-dirty
tactics like DDoS to cripple their high-tech targets. Both government and corporate entities are
susceptible to being targeted by North Korean cyber attacks. North Korean juche ideology places
the survival of the regime as its primary goal, and any perceived threat to the regime may be
targeted. Several attacks on U.S. and South Korean government, financial, and critical
infrastructure entities have been attributed to North Korean origins.. These attacks were often
preceded by or occurred in conjunction with North Korea voicing negative sentiments about the
targeted entities. As we saw with Iranian cyber actors in HPSR Security Briefing Episode 11, [399]
state sponsored cyber actors often launch an attack in response to a political trigger. The same
pattern seems to apply to pro-North Korean cyber actors, who have launched attacks to coincide
with U.S. Independence Day and the anniversary of the start of the Korean War, as well as
propaganda and cyber attacks in response to joint military exercises between the U.S. and South
Korea. [400] [401]
As shown by North Korea's past behavior (which is consistent with their doctrine), they are easily
"pushed into a corner". At the slightest perceived threat, the regime responds with saber-rattling
and peacocking. The regime is extremely defensive and will, in turn, flex its muscles to show the
world how capable it is, even if this is an inaccurate display of their overall capabilities.
The regime fears losing its control and the nation’s culture to the ever-growing threat of outside
influence, as is evidenced in the regime’s reaction to the comedy film “The Interview”. The regime
has represented itself to its citizens as a powerful and capable entity and has used this status to
control the populace. For this reason, the regime’s leaders are forced to continually demonstrate
this strength and power, or an illusion thereof, both domestically and globally, in order to
maintain the status needed to ensure continued suppression of the population. This show of
power may require that the regime takes chances and stretches beyond its abilities at times, but
in the spirit of juche and songun, the regime will continue this façade, fearful of losing the image
its leaders have worked so hard to maintain.