TTPs Social Engineering
Approaching the Victim
The victim is contacted through social media. In this instance, the profile is impersonating a manager
from ChipPc’s HR department, an Israeli technology company. Conversing with the company
corroborated that an HR manager with this name was employed in 2007. This indicates that the
attackers thoroughly researched the subject of impersonation to generate a convincing social
engineering array.

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2021
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:WHITE
7 | P a g e
When the group contacts the victim, they use a fake profile to offer a significant position in the
company’s IT and technology fields. The victim is then directed to a website that is embedded with
malware and is designed to impersonate the company’s legitimate website.
Impersonating Websites
We estimate that the group is employing a focused social engineering format. We have detected two
prominent websites over the past six months that we associate with this infrastructure:
Softwareagjob[.]com
The company Software AG is a large-scale German technology company. A website impersonating this
company was continuously active during February. Throughout this attack, the group used the fake
website to offer a position in the company.
The impersonating webpage included a link to an XLS lure document that allegedly provides a resume
format:

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2021
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:WHITE
8 | P a g e
Jobschippc[.]com
This is the group’s primary website as of the end of May 2021. The website impersonates ChipPc, the
previously mentioned Israeli IT company, and exhibits the group’s new dual attack scenario – using
two lure documents simultaneously.
When the victim visits the website, they arrive at a page detailing three positions in the company: one
position in Rehovot (a city in Israel), concerning project management, HR, and sales, and two
additional positions in France and the United Kingdom (Paris and London respectively) concerning
sales and development. In addition to reading the wording, the victim is requested to download two
files that each refer to a different aspect of the job offer. The first file is an XLS that details the
requirements for each of the offered positions, and the second is an executable that allegedly details
the company’s capabilities in various fields. The files will be elaborated upon below.
The website also seemingly offers a .docx file for download that is named “invitation.docx”, but this
segment is not operational at this point.

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2021
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:WHITE
9 | P a g e
When examining the fake website’s file server, it appears that the files were uploaded on May 18 [th], a
day after they were generated. The website itself was already prepared on May 6 [th], several days before
it went “live” on May 11 [th] :