Southeast Asia and Korean Peninsula
We discovered that the Kimsuky group adopted a new method to deliver its malware in its latest campaign on a South Korean stock
trading application. In this campaign, beginning in December 2020, the group compromised a website belonging to the vendor of stock
trading software, replacing the hosted installation package with a malicious one. Kimsuky also delivered its malware by utilizing a
malicious Hangul (HWP) document containing COVID-19-related bait that discusses a government relief fund. Both infection vectors
ultimately deliver the Quasar RAT. Compared to Kimsuky’s last reported infection chain, composed of various scripts, the new scheme
adds complications and introduces less popular file types, involving VBS scripts, XML and Extensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) files
with embedded C# code in order to fetch and execute stagers and payloads. Based on the lure document and characteristics of the
compromised installation package, we conclude that this attack is financially motivated, which, as we have previously reported, is one of
Kimsuky’s main focus areas.
On January 25, the Google Threat Analysis Group (TAG) announced that a North Korean-related threat actor had targeted security
researchers. According to Google TAG’s blog, this actor used highly sophisticated social engineering, approached security researchers
through social media, and delivered a compromised Visual Studio project file or lured them to their blog and installed a Chrome exploit.
On March 31, Google TAG released an update on this activity showing another wave of fake social media profiles and a company the
actor set up mid-March. We can confirm that several infrastructures on the blog overlap with our previously published reporting about
Lazarus group’s ThreatNeedle cluster. Moreover, the malware mentioned by Google matched ThreatNeedle – malware that we have
been tracking since 2018. While investigating associated information, a fellow external researcher confirmed that he was also
compromised by this attack, sharing information for us to investigate. We discovered additional C2 servers after decrypting
configuration data from the compromised host. The servers were still in use during our investigation, and we were able to get additional
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2021/101967/ 7/11
4/28/2021 APT trends report Q1 2021 | Securelist
data, analyzing logs and files present on the servers. We assess that the published infrastructure was used not only to target security
researchers but also in other Lazarus attacks. We found a relatively large number of hosts communicating with the C2s at the time of our
research. You can read our public report here.
Following up our previous investigation into Lazarus attacks on the defense industry using ThreatNeedle, we discovered another
malware cluster named CookieTime used in a campaign mainly focused on the defense industry. We detected activity in September and
November 2020, with samples dating back to April 2020. Compared to the already known malware clusters of the Lazarus group,
CookieTime shows a different structure and functionality. This malware communicates with the C2 server using the HTTP protocol. In
order to deliver the request type to the C2 server, it uses encoded cookie values and fetches command files from the C2 server. The C2
communication takes advantage of steganography techniques, delivered in files exchanged between infected clients and the C2 server.
The contents are disguised as GIF image files, but contain encrypted commands from the C2 server and command execution results. We
had a chance to look into the command and control script as a result of working closely with a local CERT to take down the threat actor’s
infrastructure. The malware control servers are configured in a multi-stage fashion and only deliver the command file to valuable hosts.
While investigating the artifacts of a supply-chain attack on the Vietnam Government Certification Authority’s (VGCA) website, we
discovered that the first Trojanized package dates to June 2020. Unravelling that thread, we identified a number of post-compromise
tools in the form of plugins deployed using PhantomNet malware, which was delivered using Trojanized packages. Our analysis of these
plugins revealed similarities with the previously analyzed CoughingDown malware. In our private report, we offer a detailed description
for each post-compromise tool used in the attack, as well as other tools belonging to the actor’s arsenal. Finally, we also explore
CoughingDown attribution in the light of recent discoveries.
On February 10, DBAPPSecurity published details about a zero-day exploit they discovered last December. Aside from the details of the
exploit itself, researchers also mentioned it being used in the wild by BitterAPT. While no such subsequent information was given in the
initial report to explain the attribution claims, our investigation into this activity confirms the exploit was in fact being used exclusively
by this actor. We assigned the name TurtlePower to the campaign that makes use of this exploit, along with the other tools used to target
governmental and telecom entities in Pakistan and China. We have also confidently linked the origin of this exploit to a broker we refer
to as Moses. Moses has been responsible for the development of at least five exploits patched in the last two years. We have also been
able to tie the usage of some of these exploits to at least two different actors thus far – BitterAPT and DarkHotel. At this time, it is
unclear how these threat actors are obtaining exploits from Moses, whether it is through direct purchase or another third-party
provider. During the TurtlePower campaign, BitterAPT used a wide array of tools on its victims to include a stage one payload named
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2021/101967/ 8/11
4/28/2021 APT trends report Q1 2021 | Securelist
ArtraDownloader, a stage two payload named Splinter, a keylogger named SourLogger, an infostealer named SourFilling, as well as
variations of Mimikatz to gather specific files and maintain its access. This particular campaign also appears to be narrowly focused on
targets within Pakistan and China (based on the initial report referenced). While we can verify specific targeting within Pakistan using
our own data, we have not been able to do the same regarding China. Use of CVE-2021-1732 peaked between June and July 2020, but
the overall campaign is still ongoing.
In 2020, we observed new waves of attacks related to Dropping Elephant (aka Patchwork, Chinastrats), focusing on targets in China and
Pakistan. We also noted a few targets outside of the group’s traditional area of operations, namely in the Middle East, and a growing
interest in the African continent. The attacks followed the group’s well-established TTPs, which include the use of malicious documents
crafted to exploit a remote code execution vulnerability in Microsoft Office, and the signature JakyllHyde (aka BadNews) Trojan in the
later infection stages. Dropping Elephant introduced a new loader for JakyllHyde, a tool we named Crypta. It contains mechanisms to
hinder detection and appears to be a core component of this APT actor’s recent toolset. Crypta and its variants have been observed in
multiple scenarios loading a wide range of subsequent payloads, such as Bozok RAT, Quasar RAT and LokiBot. An additional Trojan
discovered during our research was PubFantacy. To our knowledge, this tool has never been publicly described and has been used to
target Windows servers since at least 2018.
We recently discovered a previously publicly unknown Android implant used in 2018-2019 by the SideWinder threat group, which we
dubbed BroStealer. The main purpose of the BroStealer implant is to collect sensitive information from a victim’s device, such as photos,
SMS messages, call recordings and files from various messaging applications. Although SideWinder has numerous campaigns against
victims using the Windows platform, recent reports have shown that this threat group also goes after its targets via the mobile platform.