PoisonIvy
A second method the threat actor used to maintain access across the compromised assets was
through the deployment of the PoisonIvy RAT (PIVY). This infamous RAT has been associated
with many different Chinese threat actors, including APT10, APT1, and DragonOK. It is a
powerful, multi-featured RAT that lets a threat actor take total control over a machine. Among its
most notable features are:
Registry Editor
Screenshot Grabber
Credential Stealer
Interactive Shell
File Manager with Upload and Download Support
Process Monitor
Keylogging and Various other Surveillance Features
The control panel for PoisonIvy.
Courtesy of Sam Bowne - samsclass.info
We assume the threat actor used PoisonIvy for keylogging and other surveillance features, as
they had that functionality available to them as shown in the screenshot above.
The strain of PIVY in this attack used a DLL side-loading technique to stealthily load itself into
memory. To accomplish this, it exploited a trusted and signed application. The PIVY payload was
dropped along with the trusted and signed Samsung tool ( RunHelp.exe ) in the following manner:
1. A nullsoft installer package (NSIS) was created with a legitimate, signed Samsung tool in it.
2. Once executed, the installer script within the NSIS package extracted the Samsung tool
and added a fake DLL with the same name as a legitimate DLL ( ssMUIDLL.dll), which is
required by the application.

The DLL contains a PIVY stager, which is then loaded by the Samsung tool.

https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 4. After the fake DLL was loaded by the Samsung tool, it decrypted a blob payload in the 9/21
samefolderwhichcontainstheactualPIVYpayload
9/11/2019 Operation Soft Cell: A Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers

It was able to achieve persistence by creating a rogue scheduled task.

Post-persistence execution of PIVY, side-loaded into a legitimate Samsung application.
PIVY’s use of DLL side-loading to abuse Samsung tools is not new, and has been reported
previously by Palo Alto. In 2016 it was used to attack pro-democratic activists in Hong Kong, most
probably by Chinese threat actors.
⚠ Note: Our team has reached out to and advised the targeted organizations on active
containment actions.