I. Glossary and terms
Glossary
AD Active Directory
BAU Business as Usual
BCM Business continuity management
system
C2 Command and Control
CER Critical Entities Resilience Directive
CISA Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security
Agency
CTTO Chief Technology & Transformation
Officer
CEO Chief Executive Office
CISO Chief Information Security Officer
CHI Children's Health Ireland
CHO Community Healthcare Organisation
CSF Cyber Security Framework
COBIT Control Objectives for Information and
Related Technology
DC Domain Controller
DDoS Distributed denial of service
DoH Department of Health
DPO Data Protection Officer
DPC Data Protection Commission
DRR Divisional RIsk Register
DPER Department of Public Expenditure and
Reform
EDR Endpoint detection and response
EMT Executive Management Team
ERM Enterprise Risk Management
EHR Electronic health records
FTE Full-Time Equivalent
FBI Federal Bureau of Investigation
HG Hospital Group
HSE Health Service Executive
ICT Information and Communications
Technology
147 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
IT Information Technology
iPMS Integrated Patient Management System
MI Major Incident
MIiPMS Major Incident Integrated Patient
Management System
MN-CMS Maternal & Newborn Clinical
Management System
MRN Medical Record Number
ND G&R National Director for Governance and Risk
NCMT National Crisis Management Team
NCSC National Cyber Security Centre
NHN National Healthcare Network
NIMIS National Integrated Medical
Imaging System
NISD Network and Information
Systems Directive
NiSRP National Integrated Staff Records
& Pay Programme
NIST National Institute of Standards
and Technology
NTPF National Treatment Purchase Fund
OES Operators of Essential Services
OoCIO Office of the Chief Information Officer
PPG Pandemic Placement Grant
PCRS Primary Care Reimbursement Service
PIR Post Incident Review
RDP Remote Desktop Protocol
RTO Recovery Time Objectives
RPO Recovery Point Objectives
SLA Service Level Agreement
SCA State Claims Agency
SOC Security Operations Centre
SIEM Security Incident and Event Manager
SitCen Situation Centre
SITREP Situation Report
SIEM Security Incident Event Management
SME Subject Matter Expert
148 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Terms
Term Definition
Acute hospital services Acute hospital services are delivered across the network of seven
acute Hospital Groups and provide scheduled care (planned care),
unscheduled care (unplanned / emergency care), diagnostic services,
specialist services (specific rare conditions or highly specialised
areas such as critical care and organ transplant services), cancer
services, trauma services, maternity and children’s services and
includes the National Ambulance Service. These services are
provided in response to population needs and are consistent with
wider health policies and objectives, including those of Sláintecare.
Hospitals continually work to improve access to healthcare, whilst
ensuring quality and patient safety initiatives are prioritised within
allocated budgets, including the management of COVID-19 and other
infections.
CMMI Model The CMMI model is used across industries and is intended to
guide process improvement across a project, division, or an entire
organisation.
COBIT framework COBIT helps organisations meet business challenges in the areas of
regulatory compliance, risk management and aligning IT strategy with
organisational goals.
Community healthcare services Community healthcare services include primary care, social inclusion,
older persons’ and palliative care services, disability and mental
health services, which are provided for children and adults, including
those who are experiencing marginalisation and health inequalities.
Community healthcare services are currently delivered across nine
Community Healthcare Organisations (CHOs) and are provided
through a mix of HSE direct provision as well as through voluntary
section 38 and 39 service providers, GPs and private providers. The
community healthcare budget accounts for almost 40% of the HSE
spend.
Malware Malicious software.
NIST cybersecurity framework The framework integrates industry standards and best practices to
help organisations manage their cybersecurity risks. It provides a
common language that allows staff at all levels within an organisation
to develop a shared understanding of their cybersecurity risks.
Penetration testing Penetration testing (also called pen testing or ethical hacking) is a
systematic process of probing for vulnerabilities in an organisations
networks and applications.
Post Incident Review A post incident review identifies which organisational and technical
control mechanisms did not work properly, as well as which factors
influenced the ability to detect and handle the incident.
Ransomware Capability Framework PwC’s framework to identify technical control gaps that contributed
to the Incident occurring.
149 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Term Definition
Ransomware attack A type of cyber attack where criminals hack into the victim's network
and deploy ransomware to encrypt data, before attempting to extort
organisations into paying ransoms.
Red Team An exercise that simulates real-world hacker techniques to test an
organisation's resilience and uncover vulnerabilities in their defences.
Sláintecare Sláintecare is the ten-year programme to transform Ireland’s health
and social care services. The Sláintecare report was adopted
by the Government and published in May 2017. The Sláintecare
Implementation Strategy was approved by Government in July 2018.
150 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Redacted for security purposes.
At PwC, our purpose is to build trust in society and solve important problems.
We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with over 250,000 people who are
committed to delivering quality in assurance, advisory and tax services. Find out
more and tell us what matters to you by visiting us at www.pwc.ie. PwC refers
to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a
separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
© 2021 PwC. All rights reserved. 06867