Anatomy of the attack
General description
These attacks comprised of the classical scenario of specific targeted attacks, consisting of two major
stages:


Initial infection


Additional modules deployed for intelligence gathering


The malicious code was delivered via e-mail as attachments (Microsoft Excel, Word and, probably PDF
documents) which were rigged with exploit code for known security vulnerabilities in the mentioned
applications. In addition to Office documents (CVE-2009-3129, CVE-2010-3333, CVE-2012-0158), it
appears that the attackers also infiltrated victim network(s) via Java exploitation (known as the 'Rhino'
exploit (CVE-2011-3544).
Right after the victim opened the malicious document or visit malicious URL on a vulnerable system, the
embedded malicious code initiated the setup of the main component which in turn handled further
communication with the C&C servers.
Next, the system receives a number of additional spy modules from the C&C server, including modules to
handle infection of smartphones.
The main purpose of the spying modules is to steal information. This includes files from different
cryptographic systems, such as "Acid Cryptofiler", (see https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acid_Cryptofiler)
which is known to be used in organizations of European Union/European Parliament/European
Commission since the summer of 2011. All gathered information is packed, encrypted and only then
transferred to the C&C server.
Step-by-step description (1st stage)
During our investigation we couldn't find any e-mails used in the attacks, only top level dropper
documents. Nevertheless, based on indirect evidence, we know that the e-mails can be sent using one of
the following methods:
Using an anonymous mailbox from a free public email service provider
Using mailboxes from already infected organizations
E-mail subject lines as well as the text in e-mail bodies varied depending on the target (recipient). The
attached file contained the exploit code which activated a Trojan dropper in the system.
We have observed the use of at least three different exploits for previously known vulnerabilities: CVE
2009-3129 (MS Excel), CVE-2010-3333 (MS Word) and CVE-2012-0158 (MS Word). The first attacks that
used the exploit for MS Excel started in 2010, while attacks targeting the MS Word vulnerabilities
appeared in the summer of 2012.
As a notable fact, the attackers used exploit code that was made public and originally came from a
previously known targeted attack campaign with Chinese origins. The only thing that was changed is the
executable which was embedded in the document; the attackers replaced it with their own code.
The embedded executable is a file-dropper, which extracts and runs three additional files.
%TEMP%MSC.BAT
%ProgramFiles%WINDOWS NTLHAFD.GCP (<- This file name varies)
%ProgramFiles%WINDOWS NTSVCHOST.EXE
MSC.BAT file has the following contents:
chcp 1251
:Repeat
attrib -a -s -h -r "%DROPPER_FILE%"
del "%DROPPER_FILE%"
if exist "%DROPPER_FILE%" goto Repeat
del "%TEMP%msc.bat"
Another noteworthy fact is in the first line of this file, which is a command to switch the codepage of an
infected system to 1251. This is required to address files and directories that contain Cyrillic characters in
their names.
The "LHAFD.GCP" file is encrypted with RC4 and compressed with the "Zlib" library. This file is
essentially a backdoor, which is decoded by the loader module (svchost.exe). The decrypted file is injected
into system memory and is responsible for communication with the C&C server.
On any infected system, every major task is performed by the main backdoor component. The main
component is started only after its loader ("svchost.exe") checks if the internet connection is available. It
does so by connecting to three Microsoft hosts:
update.microsoft.com
www.microsoft.com
support.microsoft.com
Figure - Hosts used to validate internet connection
After the Internet connection is validated, the loader executes the main backdoor component that
connects to its C&C servers:
Capture of malware's communication with the C2
The connections with the C&C are encrypted - different encryption algorithms are used to send and
receive data.
Encrypted communication with the C2
During our investigation, we found more than 60 different command-and-control domains. Each malware
sample contains three such domains, which are hardcoded inside the main backdoor component:
Hardcoded C2 domains inside backdoor
Step-by-step description (2nd stage)
After a connection with the C&C server is established, the backdoor starts the communication process,
which leads to the loading of additional modules. These modules can be split into two categories: "offline"
and "online". The main difference between these categories is their behavior on the infected system:
"Offline": exists as files on local disk, capable of creating its own system registry keys, local disk log
files, and may communicate with C&C servers on their own.
"Online": exists only in system memory and is never saved to local disk, do not create registry keys,
all logs are also kept in memory instead of local disk and sends the result of work to the C&C server
using own code.
There is a notable module among all others, which is essentially created to be embedded into Adobe
Reader and Microsoft Office applications. The main purpose of its code is to create a foolproof way to
regain access to the target system. The module expects a specially crafted document with attached
executable code and special tags. The document may be sent to the victim via e-mail. It will not have an
exploit code and will safely pass all security checks. However, like with exploit case, the document will be
instantly processed by the module and the module will start a malicious application attached to the
document.
This trick can be used to regain access to the infected machines in case of unexpected C&C servers
shutdown/takeover.