Shift of focus to Ukraine
Before we observed a rise in Win32/Potao detections in Ukraine in 2014, ESET detected several
debug versions of the malware in autumn 2013. We can assume that this was in preparation for the
Ukrainian targeted attacks.
9
Figure 10 – Debug versions of Win32/Potao [6]
One of the campaign IDs in these debug waves was krim (Russian for Crimea).
Postal-service campaigns
In March 2014, the gang behind Potao started using a new infection vector. They created a malicious
landing webpage called MNTExpress. The website was apparently inspired by the site of the
legitimate Russian postal service Pony Express.
Figure 11 – Legitimate Pony Express website
Figure 12 – Fraudulent MNTExpress website
6) The text strings shown in the screenshot are not present in regular release versions of the trojan.
10
Posing as a parcel tracking receipt or an invoice is a very common technique for spreading malware.
Instructions to download the malicious bait are usually sent in waves of phishing emails. The Potao
gang, however, used a different approach.
The targets of their interest were sent an SMS message that contained a link to the fraudulent
landing webpage, along with a specific tracking code and the recipient’s name. This approach
indicates very specific targeting of the attacks, since:


The attackers had prior knowledge of the victims’ full names and their cellphone numbers.


The delivered binaries were tailored to the victim. In order to download a sample of Win32/Potao,
it was necessary to enter a specific tracking code into the web form.


Figure 13 – Spear-phishing SMS
Figure 14 shows a recipient inquiring about the SMS on a Vkontakte discussion forum:
Figure 14 – SMS recipient seeking information on discussion forum
11
The same infection scenario was used approximately one year later, in March 2015. This time,
the attackers registered the domain WorldAirPost.com and the website design was stolen from
Singapore Post. Curiously, the attackers changed the Singapore Post logo to “Italy Post”:
Figure 15 – Legitimate website of Singapore Post’s Speedpost service
Figure 16 – Fraudulent WorldAirPost.com website
At the time of writing the attackers are still active, having registered WorldAirPost.net in June 2015.
It is also interesting to note that while the MNTExpress websites contained both Russian and English
language mutations, WorldAirPost was only in English.
12
Interestingly, the Potao droppers served in these campaigns were not disguised as Word documents
but Excel spreadsheets. Also, instead of popping up a decoy document, a fake “excuse” dialog box is
shown (Figure 17):
Figure 17 – Pop-up message “explaining” why no Excel document was opened
Attacks against Ukrainian government and military
Since March 2015, ESET has detected Potao binaries at several high-value Ukrainian targets that
include government and military entities and one of the major Ukrainian news agencies. The infection
vector used in these attack waves was again an executable with a MS Word document icon and this
time cleverly chosen filenames to increase the likelihood that the recipient would open the bait:
Figure 18 – Potao droppers with MS Word icons and file names to attract the recipients‘ interest [7]
The topics in the file names correspond to the fact that government and military officials were
targeted. The decoy documents displayed once again appeared corrupted.
Figure 19 – One of the corrupted-looking decoy documents from March 5, 2015
7) The acronym ‘ATO’ refers to ‘Anti Terrorist Operation’ in Eastern Ukraine. The same theme was used to spread the BlackEnergy trojan.
13