What the CCTC means for a rapid response to large scale threats
About a week into the COVID-19 lockdown, Sophos chief scientist,
Joshua Saxe put out a global call for volunteers. The virtual bucket
brigade rapidly became the COVID-19 Cyber Threat Coalition
(CCTC), an organization numbering more than 4,000 members in
service of one goal: To put special effort into countering any type of
threat or social engineering that attempted to leverage the public’s
fear about COVID-19, by name or inference.
“I’m not a firefighter, so I wouldn’t know how to fight a building
fire, but I can assist a team that’s going to bolster the defenses of
critical infrastructure, like hospitals,” says CCTC’s Nick Espinosa, a
security analyst and podcaster based in Chicago.
This was a very necessary effort. From the earliest points of the
lockdown period, attackers spread spam, malware, and a variety of
other threats that made reference, in one form or another, to the
frightening, new pandemic lingo. As mentioned in the main report,
at one point, people were registering thousands of new domains
with the words COVID-19, corona, or CoV in their names, each day.
Sophos traced domains connected to TLS certificates with those
same text strings in the certificate data and found thousands more.
Fig.22. Source: Sophos.
COVID-19 Cyber Threat Coalition member growth
Fig.23. Source: Sophos.
Because of the unique nature of the threat posed by COVID-19,
malicious spam that abuses the global crisis represents something
particularly egregious and offensive. “We saw an explosion
of criminal hacking using COVID-19 as a lure,” said Espinosa.
Spam campaigns spun up, in which the spammers dressed
the messages like official communiques from the World Health
Organization, the CDC in the US, the UK’s NHS, drug companies, or
national health authorities in countries outside the US and UK.
Analysts also saw references to COVID-19 in strings inside of
binaries and used as variables in so-called living-off-the-land,
LOLscripts.
CCTC participants shared samples and intelligence about all
manner of incidents through a hastily set-up Slack. Chaotic at first,
the organization formed a rudimentary structure quickly. “So many
people came together and were fire-hosing so much information,”
Espinosa says.
The CCTC’s product, the collected output, is its intelligence feed
listing newly-gathered indicators of compromise. The feed is
free to use, by anyone. These IoCs complement the defensive
technologies already in place, in a vendor-neutral way. When the
CCTC formed a partnership with the Cyber Threat Alliance, the
security vendors that participate in the CTA amplified the protective
effect of CCTC’s threat intelligence by ingesting and defending
against those threats.
The rapid coalescence of security professionals, sharing a common
goal, was heartwarming, says Espinosa. “We probably were a hot
mess out of the gate,” he says, but the group self-organized quickly.
The completion of the CCTC sharing platform means anyone who
might need to respond to a COVID-19-like pandemic in the future
won’t have to reinvent the wheel, and can respond more readily
to threats – a healthy metaphor for, and analogue of, the immune
system itself.
November 2020 27
SOPHOS 2021 THREAT REPORT