MAGIC KITTEN
In January 2015, the German news outlet Der Spiegel released previously unpublished documents on cyber espionage conducted by American intelligence
agencies. [50] One of them revealed an NSA tactic labeled “fourth party collection,”
which is the practice of breaking into the command and control infrastructure
of foreign-state-sponsored hackers to look over their shoulders. The presentation
describes a real-life example of acquiring intelligence and stealing victims from a
group code-named VOYEUR by the NSA, otherwise known as Magic Kitten.
Magic Kitten appears to be among the oldest and most elaborate threat actors
originating in Iran. It is also distinct from other groups because of its apparent
relationship with the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence rather than the IRGC.
However, Magic Kitten’s activities mirror those of other groups, with the primary targets being Iranians inside Iran and Tehran’s regional rivals. The earliest
observed samples of Magic Kitten’s custom malware agent dates to 2007, well
before other known malware apparently originated, and the threat actor continues to be active.
Magic Kitten appears to exercise the most mature tradecraft of Iran-based threat
actors. It has opportunistically compromised dozens of websites at random
(including those of an Indian hospital, an Italian architect, and a well-known
Canadian comedian) to create a relay network to hide its operations. Such attention to tradecraft appears elsewhere in Magic Kitten’s operations, including in
the design of malware, which is modular in nature.
Magic Kitten has not been observed using sophisticated exploits and instead appears to rely on social engineering and other common tactics to deceive users. In
the case of the journalist Vahid Pour Ostad, the malware was sent by his former
Ministry of Intelligence interrogator with a threat attached and relied on private
records that would have been available only to government actors. This coordination represents both independent confirmation of the NSA’s attribution and
an extreme example of the strategies employed by Magic Kitten. Other samples
of the malware agent appear to have been delivered posing as Turkish asylum
forums for Syrian refugees.
20     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
The NSA presentation also provides a window on Magic Kitten’s targets up to
May 2011, portraying an operation focused on North America, Europe, and the
Middle East. These campaigns continued through the June 2013 presidential
election of Hassan Rouhani, provoking a blogpost from Google about related
attacks. [51] As the election approached, exposed logs showed the daily capture
of dozens of accounts connected to Iranian cultural and media figures, graduate students, and social activists (including individuals that would later join the
Rouhani administration). Magic Kitten continued to target Iranians after the
election, attempting to unmask pseudonymous internet users by baiting them
with content on women’s rights and the security establishment.
Like other Iranian operations, Magic Kitten maintains a strong secondary interest in conducting espionage against regional targets and international foreign
policy institutions. CrowdStrike, another American cybersecurity company,
accounts for part of this focus on “international corporations, mainly in the
technology sector” and other political targets. [52] An NSA slide with a victim map
portrays a broad-reaching operation targeting nearly every country in the Middle
East. Sinkhole data collected from expired domains previously used as relays and
other fallback infrastructure suggest that Magic Kitten, or the malware agent
used, continues to actively compromise individuals in Germany, Indonesia, Iraq,
Lebanon, the Netherlands, Palestine, Pakistan, Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland,
Thailand, and the United Arab Emirates. Notably, compromised individuals in
Iraq were also typically in Iraqi Kurdistan, mirroring a common pattern with
other threat actors.
A diagram within the NSA presentation suggests that the malware agent employed by Magic Kitten was also used at the time by Iran’s Shia Lebanese proxy
Hezbollah, under independent infrastructure. While Hezbollah has been known
to maintain its own offensive cyber operations and engage in intelligence sharing
with Iran, there has been little prior evidence of direct sharing of tools. [53]
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    21