Attribution
No strong attribution can be made at this time. However, the tools used for initial entry are seen, discussed and
distributed in multiple hacking and security forums sourced within the last two years.
In combination to the tools being used, we have observed some of the files packaged specifically for some affected
environments are resemble languages spoken in Central Europe, like aiureala .zip (meaning “nonsense” in some
translations), as well as a file named oricenume .exe (sometimes meaning “any name”). Aside from this, some of the
uncovered log files have a time stamp format popularly used in Europe (dd/mm/yyyy).
It would also be worth noting that the link to the infrastructure being used in this operation and to PwnPOS is quite
strong. In our write-up of PwnPOS, the method being used for data exfiltration would be the use of email, as seen
below.
23
Trend Micro | Operation Black Atlas: How Modular Botnets are Used in Attacks
Notice that the email address of the recipient was also used as the administrative contact of a domain related to Spy
Net.
One other domain used in the Spynet was registered by “Petrov Strong”. The same name was used to register an
account at a carding forum around September 2015.
24
Trend Micro | Operation Black Atlas: How Modular Botnets are Used in Attacks
This does not, however, point us explicitly to anyone or any group in particular but it does highlight the following facts
about this threat actor/group:


The toolset would be from security forums that discuss such tools. The group or the actors have been
keeping themselves updated with the recent tools, and may have a strong background in network
penetration methodologies.


The threat actor or group has a long history with point-of-sale-related threats, having access to different
RAM scraper families.


With the use of remote access Trojans to maintain control of the compromised environment, the group may
be interested in other aspects of the network.


The use of existing tools within the environment also paints a picture that the group, or the threat actors, has a big
picture in mind – they are able to take the environment with the correct context, and use it for their own advantage. It
also shows that enough reconnaissance has been performed so that they can use effective methodologies against
the environment that they intend to compromise. However, unlike network penetration testers, they do not have
restricted goals, has tricks up their sleeve to prolong their access and seek out other forms of interesting data for
their own benefit.