Case A:
In this case, the victim company had already subscribed to our continuous threat hunting
2
service. Our investigation revealed malicious activities occurring between 2019-12-09 ~
2019-12-10. Meanwhile, in this incident, 15 endpoints and 6 user accounts were compromised, and
4 malwares and 8 C2 servers were found.
To help better depict the operational details of this case, the cyber situation graph and storyline
is respectively shown in Fig 1. Note that all the server/user names are de-identified, and replaced
with names that can represent their roles.
Figure 1: Storyline in Case A
3
The same APT malware - GoogleUpdate.exe - was found on two endpoints. On the day we
discovered this malware, no information could be found on VirusTotal (VT). To confuse security
products and analysts, the malware replaced the original GoogleUpdate binary and functioned as a
mutated Cobalt Strike beacon to inject payloads into other processes. Moreover, network security
devices had difficulty detecting the associated C2 servers, as they were located in the Google Cloud
Platform. The C2 server domains are listed in Appendix I of the IoC section.
After successfully connecting back to the C2, the attacker used RECORDEDTV.MS to archive
the stolen data for data exfiltration. It is worthy to note that even without the .exe file extension, the
data exfiltration process could still be executed. Identical binaries were found in several machines,
but under different names, e.g. RECORDEDTV.MS, uncheck.dmp, and jucheck.exe. This aroused
our suspicions and prompted us to suspect the binary was masquerading as a Java Update program.
Inserting malware in a location where legal software is stored seems to be a characteristic tactic of
Chimera ​. For this case, it was found that the disguised program, which was a modified RAR
software, had a one-byte discrepancy from the original version. We are still ascertaining the reasons
behind this difference.
To track the root cause, we found that the first Cobalt Strike backdoor was located at
NB-CLAIR, and was then remotely copied to Server-LAUREN. A valid account was used to invoke
Cobalt Strike via schtasks (Fig 2).
​
Figure 2: schtask is used to lateral movement
4
The recon activities in Server-LAUREN are illustrated in the figure below. Several "net user”
commands were executed for recon purposes, and the results were saved to the RecordedTV_lib.log
(Fig 3).
Figure 3: Reconnaissance commands
Our analysis also showed that Server-LAUREN used wmic to remotely execute various
commands in another endpoint to check if there was an Internet connection (Fig 4).
Figure 4: Reconnaissance via wmic
5
Server-LAUREN also archived the registry and ntds.dit to other hosts for offline breaking. The
latter is an AD database, which contains information about domain hosts and users, e.g. id, name
and password hash. Since this file was encrypted, and the key was stored in the SYSTEM registry,
the threat actor needed to archive both ntds.dit and the registry to both decrypt the file and remotely
brute-force the password hash. The control of Server-LAUREN, which was also achieved via
schtasks, was traced back to the NB-CLAIR machine. From the NB-CLAIR timeline, we noticed
that a remote desktop program (RDP) from a certain IP was run just six minutes before the schtasks
was executed (Fig 5). Since this IP was a VPN server, and a valid account was used to log in to it,
we believe the actor acquired the password from a separate data breach.
​
Figure 5: Overall activities
At the end of the attack, the wlanapi.dll malware, which we dubbed SkeletonKeyInjector, was
used for persistence. More details of the malware reversing will be provided in ​ Sec. 4 Malware
Reversing .
6