Source of Attacks
So, who is behind Winnti? While analyzing the malicious files that we detected during our investigations we found
some details which may cast some light on the source of the attacks.
As part of our investigation, we monitored exactly what the cybercriminals did on an infected PC. In particular, they
downloaded an auxiliary program ff._exe to the Config.Msi folder on the infected machine. This code searches for
HTML, MS Excel, MS Word, Adobe, PowerPoint and MS Works documents and text files (.txt) on the hard drive.
Debugging lines were found in ff.exe that possibly point to the nationality of the cybercriminals. They were not
immediately noticeable because they looked like this in the editor:
However, during a detailed analysis it emerged that the text is in Chinese Simplified GBK coding. This is what these
lines look in Chinese:
PAGE 51| “Winnti” | More than just a game
Below is a machine translation of this text into English:
Not identify the type of file system
Below is a translation of the text by interpreter
Open the volume failed
Failed to get the file system type
Failed to read volume
Volumes do not open or open failed
Navigate to the root directory of the error
Error memory read pointer
Memory is too small
File does not exist
Failed to get the file mft index sector
Access to file data fail
Volume and open volumes are not the same
The same volume and open volume
In addition, cybercriminals used the AheadLib program to create malicious libraries (for details, see the second part
of the article). This is a program with a Chinese interface.
Chinese text was also found in one of the components of the malicious program CmdPlus.dll plug-in:
Translation: The process is complete!!
It would appear that the attackers can at least speak Chinese. However, not everything is so clear cut: because the
file transfer plug-in has not been implemented entirely safely, a command which includes the attackers’ local path
(where the file comes from and where it is saved to) arrives during the process of downloading/uploading files on
the infected system. While monitoring the cybercriminals’ activity on the infected machine, we noticed they
uploaded the certificate they found in the infected system, and the network traffic reflected the local path
indicating the place where they saved the file on their computer:
These characters appear to be Korean, meaning “desktop”. This means the attackers were working on a Korean
Windows operating system. Therefore, we can presume that the attack is not exclusively the work of Chinese
speaking cybercriminals.
PAGE 52| “Winnti” | More than just a game