Operational Profile of An Advanced Cyber Intrusion
The following case study is based wholly upon an internal post-incident forensics
investigation and discussions with information security specialists from a single
affected firm following a penetration and data exfiltration by intruders likely
associated with a state sponsored operation. The company’s internal analysis of
the incident indicates that the attacks came through, or originated from, China and
many of the techniques are consistent with the operational profile attributed to other
attacks believed to originate from China. This case study reflects the details of only
a single incident. Private sector firms—even within a given industry—frequently
employ a variety of information security tools and strategies based on their unique
network architecture and approaches to risk management .
Information security analysts at a large US commercial firm several years ago
detected a high volume of data being sent from their network to multiple computers in
the US and overseas, with many aspects of the activity matching the profile often
associated with other state sponsored attacks. The analysts quickly began putting
blocks in place on their network to halt the data loss but not before significant
volumes of data were lost to the intruders.
The scale of this operation, which also targeted other large US companies within a
several week period suggests a disciplined command and control structure, a means
of sharing specific data collection requirements for various targeted companies and
the capability to collate and process extremely large volumes of data once exfiltrated.
Additionally, in this specific incident at least, the attackers selected the data for
exfiltration with great care. Though they had the opportunity, they did not simply
“take what they could get” and leave, rather, they chose specific files, often ignoring
related information in adjacent directory locations, activity which suggests these
attackers were disciplined and operating from a specific list of collection
requirements, a characteristic usually only found in highly professional operations.
During the incident described below, the attackers did not open and review file
contents—though they had the required file permissions—but instead navigated
immediately to the files or folders they wanted and began the steps necessary to
exfiltrate them, suggesting that they had reviewed the directory contents offline and
that they had already gained access to this firm’s network to conduct detailed
reconnaissance, including the possible exfiltration of file directory listings.
These types of operational techniques are not characteristic of amateur hackers
operating in widely dispersed geographic areas. While the affiliation of the individual
operators is impossible to establish, the coordination required to stage this operation
suggests that even if these were freelance operators not directly affiliated with a state
or military organization, they had professional quality organization and discipline and
a specific set of collection objectives, evidenced as much by what they didn’t take—
59
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
despite having easy access to the data—as what they did take. The type and
specificity of data stolen in this case also suggests that the end users were already
identified and that they likely had deep science and technology resources at their
disposal to make use of the stolen information.
While attribution is always the most difficult component of information security
investigations, hackers—individuals and groups alike—tend to operate in a consistent
manner, exhibiting a preference for specific tools, possess a unique keyboard
presence, [104] and often tend to target the same types of data across their targets.
This case is consistent with other incidents attributed to Chinese intrusions into US
networks though no firm attribution data was available from this case.
Over a multi-day period during this incident, intruders staged a complex data
exfiltration operation and while the activity associated with this incident
occurred within a relatively short span of time, the preparations and
reconnaissance necessary to support it had likely been ongoing for months.
The teams or individuals who carried out this operation displayed discipline and a
deep knowledge of the network architecture they targeted, suggesting that these
operators had likely spent months patiently assembling a detailed picture of this
network.
Identical remote communication and administrative tools and operational
techniques were used in earlier incidents with this and other companies; they
operated at times using a communication channel between a host with an IP
address located in the People’s Republic of China and a server on the
company’s internal network, a technique observed consistently in similar
intrusions at other commercial firms.
Analysis of the operation suggests that the adversaries previously identified
specific directories, file shares, servers, user accounts, employee full names,
password policies, and group memberships on the network, likely during their
detailed reconnaissance phase.
They did not open any files to review the contents prior to exfiltration,
suggesting they already knew the contents or at a minimum, the file names of
the data they were tasked with stealing.
104 An individual’s “keyboard behavior” in the context of computer network intrusions refers to the
specific habits that a hacker might develop over the course of performing certain functions many times.
The sophistication, frequency, combination of commands, and elapsed time between keyboard entries
can all help in the creation of a “forensic profile” an individual attacker.
60
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
The adversary used at least two groups in the operation; a breach team (referred to
by these information security analysts as “Team One”) and a collection team (known
as “Team Two”), responsible for gathering and exfiltrating the targeted data.
Each team employed distinct toolkits and used them in unique ways
suggesting not only different operational goals but also different individuals at
the keyboard.
The teams maintained a base of instrumented hosts on the company’s
network that they held in reserve for use as required at external locations to
support their covert communications for an extended period of time.
Prior to this data exfiltration, the company’s information security analysts had
detected activity attributed to these types of sophisticated attackers, but it was
generally characterized by low volumes of traffic through compromised hosts and
appeared primarily focused on maintaining access and presence. The company’s
information security staff detected and countered these compromises in the months
prior to the final data exfiltration, however, the attackers’ appear to have simply
created new entry vectors or reverted back to other pre-established means of
accessing the company’s network. The reconnaissance phase seems to have been
sufficiently methodical and quiet to permit the compilation of an accurate map of the
network over time. The adversary identified servers, file shares, individual
employees, user groups, and the credentials necessary to support a complex data
exfiltration operation later.
Figure 7: Diagram of the data exfiltration operation attributed to a sophisticated—possibly state
sponsored—intrusion into a US commercial network.
61
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation