Operational Environment Overview
This chapter describes the aspects of the operational environment in which the Army
conducts cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare. It describes cyberspace
and electromagnetic warfare forces’ core competencies and lays out the fundamental
principles of cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare. This chapter
discusses interrelationships and interdependencies between cyberspace operations,
electromagnetic warfare, and the warfighting functions.
OVERVIEW OF THE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT
1-1. Cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare (EW) play an essential role in the Army’s conduct
of unified land operations as part of a joint force and in coordination with unified action partners. Cyberspace
operations are the employment of cyberspace capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve objectives
in or through cyberspace (JP 3-0). Electromagnetic warfare is a military action involving the use of
electromagnetic and directed energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy (JP 3-85).
1-2. Cyberspace is one of the five domains of warfare and uses a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum
(EMS) for operations, for example, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and satellite transport. Therefore, cyberspace operations
and EW require frequency assignment, management, and coordination performed by spectrum management
operations. Spectrum management operations consist of four key functions—spectrum management, frequency
assignment, host-nation coordination, and policy adherence. Spectrum management operations include
preventing and mitigating frequency conflicts and electromagnetic interference (EMI) between friendly forces
and host nations during Army operations (refer to ATP 6-02.70).
CYBERSPACE AND THE ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM
1-3. Cyberspace and the EMS are critical for success in today’s operational environment (OE). U.S. and
adversary forces alike rely heavily on cyberspace and EMS-dependent technologies for command and control,
information collection, situational understanding, and targeting. Achieving relative superiority in cyberspace
and the EMS gives commanders an advantage over adversaries and enemies. By conducting cyberspace
operations and EW, commanders can limit adversaries’ available courses of action, diminish their ability to
gain momentum, degrade their command and control, and degrade their ability to operate effectively in the
other domains.
1-4. Commanders must leverage cyberspace and EW capabilities using a combined arms approach to seize,
retain, and exploit the operational initiative. Effective use of cyberspace operations and EW require
commanders and staffs to conduct cyberspace electromagnetic activities (CEMA). Cyberspace electromagnetic
activities is the process of planning, integrating, and synchronizing cyberspace operations and electromagnetic
warfare in support of unified land operations (ADP 3-0). By integrating and synchronizing cyberspace
operations and EW, friendly forces gain an information advantage across multiple domains and lines of
operations. Figure 1-1 on page 1-2 illustrates how cyberspace operations and EW contribute to Army
operations.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-1
Chapter 1
Figure 1-1. Cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare logic chart
1-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
SECTION I – CORE COMPETENCIES AND FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
1-5. The Army’s reliance on networked systems and weapons necessitates highly trained forces to protect
warfighting systems and networks dependent upon access to cyberspace and the EMS. Cyberspace and the
EMS are heavily congested due to the high volume of friendly, neutral, and adversary use, and contested due
to adversary actions.
1-6. Adversaries continue to develop sophisticated weapons and networked systems that project power
through or depend on cyberspace and the EMS. The Army employs cyberspace and EW capabilities as part of
a joint and combined arms approach to defeat threat activities in cyberspace and the EMS, protect friendly
forces, and enable friendly freedom of action across the conflict continuum. Army cyberspace and EW forces
apply the following core competencies and underlying fundamental principles to ensure friendly forces gain
and maintain positions of relative advantage.
CORE COMPETENCIES
1-7. Cyberspace forces and EW professionals are organized, trained, and equipped to provide the following
core competencies that deliver essential and enduring capabilities to the Army—
 Enable situational understanding.
 Protect friendly personnel and capabilities.
 Deliver effects.
C REATE U NDERSTANDING
1-8. Cyberspace forces execute cyberspace intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in and through
the information environment to identify and understand adversary networks, systems, and processes. This
information enables commanders to understand adversary capabilities and vulnerabilities, thereby enhancing
the commanders’ ability to prioritize and deliver effects.
1-9. EW professionals surveil the EMS to collect combat information used to characterize adversary use of
the EMS and understand the integration of adversary emitter systems arrays at echelon. This information
enables understanding friendly vulnerabilities and threat capabilities while allowing commanders to prioritize
and deliver effects.
P ROTECT F RIENDLY P ERSONNEL AND C APABILITIES
1-10. Cyberspace forces defend networks, warfighting platforms, capabilities, and data from ongoing or
imminent malicious cyberspace activity. By protecting critical networks and systems, cyberspace forces help
maintain the Army’s ability to conduct operations and project power across all domains.
1-11. EW forces, in coordination with the G-6 or S-6 and in support of the commander’s directive, implement
and enhance measures to protect friendly personnel, facilities, warfighting platforms, capabilities, and
equipment from adverse effects in the EMS. EW forces recommend measures to mask or control friendly
emissions from enemy detection and deny adversaries the ability to locate and target friendly formations. EW
forces detect and mitigate enemy attacks in or through the EMS to maintain the Army’s ability to conduct
operations and project power across all domains.
D ELIVER E FFECTS
1-12. Cyberspace forces deliver cyberspace effects against adversary networks, systems, and weapons.
These effects enhance the Army’s ability to conduct operations, reduce adversary combat power, and project
power across all domains.
1-13. EW professionals deliver effects in the EMS against adversary networks, systems, and weapons. These
actions reduce adversary combat power, protect friendly forces, and enhance friendly forces and weapons’
lethality.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-3
Chapter 1
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
1-14. Fundamental principles are basic rules or assumptions of central importance that guide how cyberspace
and EW professionals’ approach and conduct cyberspace operations and EW. These fundamental principles
are—
 Operational focus.
 Adaptability and versatility.
 Global reach.
O PERATIONAL F OCUS
1-15. Cyberspace and EW forces execute missions in support of a commander’s overarching operational
design. When properly integrated and synchronized as part of a combined arms approach, cyberspace and EW
capabilities can produce layered dilemmas for the adversary in multiple domains and enhance relative combat
power. To accomplish this, cyberspace and EW staff must collaborate across all warfighting functions.
A DAPTABILITY AND V ERSATILITY
1-16. Cyberspace and EW forces conduct operations using capabilities that are adaptable to a variety of
mission requirements. Cyberspace and EW capabilities vary in both the size of the force employed and the
magnitude or scope of effects created. Depending on mission requirements, cyberspace and EW capabilities
may be used as primary or supporting efforts for decisive, shaping or sustaining operations.
G LOBAL R EACH
1-17. The nature of the cyberspace domain increases the operational reach of cyberspace and EW forces.
Combat mission force(s) and EW professionals deliver strategic, operational, or tactical effects worldwide from
remote, co-located, or forward operating positions.
SECTION II – OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT
1-18. An operational environment is a composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect
the employment of capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander (JP 3-0). Conditions in cyberspace
and the EMS often change rapidly and can positively or negatively impact a commander’s ability to achieve
mission objectives. Friendly, neutral, adversary, and enemy actions in cyberspace and the EMS can create nearinstantaneous effects on the battlefield or in garrison. Given the global nature of cyberspace and the EMS, these
actions can impact a commander’s OE even though the actions may originate or terminate beyond that OE.
Cyberspace and EW effects also cross through and impact multiple domains simultaneously. For these reasons,
commanders must gain and maintain an in-depth understanding of the OE that extends beyond the land domain
to the multi-domain extended battlefield to seize, exploit, and retain operational initiative.
1-19. Operational initiative is the setting of tempo and terms of action throughout an operation (ADP 3-0).
By gaining and maintaining positions of relative advantage, including information advantage in and through
cyberspace and the EMS, commanders can seize and retain the operational initiative. To gain and maintain
information advantage, commanders must account for the temporal nature of information and the temporary
nature of many cyberspace and EW effects. On average, the relative operational advantage that a commander
can gain from a piece of information or from a cyberspace or EW effect degrades over time. This means that a
commander who takes action first, on average, will obtain a greater information advantage from a similar piece
of information or effect than a commander who acts later. In this way, the commander who can sense,
understand, decide, act, and assess faster than an opponent will generally obtain the greatest information
advantage.
1-20. Commanders can use cyberspace and EW capabilities to gain enhanced situational awareness and
understanding of the enemy through reconnaissance and sensing activities. These reconnaissance and sensing
activities can augment and enhance the understanding a commander gains from information collection and
intelligence processes. Commanders can also use cyberspace and EW capabilities to decide and act faster than
an adversary or enemy. By protecting friendly information systems and signals from disruption or exploitation
1-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
by an adversary or enemy, a commander can ensure command and control and maintain tactical and operational
surprise. Conversely, a commander might use cyberspace and EW capabilities to slow or degrade an enemy’s
decision-making processes by disrupting enemy sensors, communications, or data processing. To make
effective use of cyberspace and EW capabilities to achieve an information advantage, a commander must plan
early to integrate cyberspace operations and EW actions fully into the overall scheme of maneuver.
CYBERSPACE DOMAIN
1-21. Cyberspace is a global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent
networks of information technology infrastructures and resident data, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers (JP 3-12).
Cyberspace operations require the use of links and nodes located in other physical domains to perform logical
functions that create effects in cyberspace that then permeate throughout the physical domains using both wired
networks and the EMS.
1-22. The use of cyberspace is essential to operations. The Army conducts cyberspace operations and
supporting activities as part of both Army and joint operations. Because cyberspace is a global communications
and data-sharing medium, it is inherently joint, inter-organizational, multinational, and often a shared resource,
with signal and intelligence maintaining significant equities. Friendly, enemy, adversary, and host-nation
networks, communications systems, computers, cellular phone systems, social media websites, and technical
infrastructures are all part of cyberspace.
1-23. To aid the planning and execution of cyberspace operations, cyberspace is sometimes visualized in
three layers. These layers are interdependent, but each layer has unique attributes that affect operations.
Cyberspace operations generally traverse all three layers of cyberspace but may target effects at one or more
specific layers. Planners must consider the challenges and opportunities presented by each layer of cyberspace
as well as the interactions amongst the layers. Figure 1-2 on page 1-6 depicts the relationship between the three
cyberspace layers. The three cyberspace layers are—
 The physical network layer.
 The logical network layer.
 The cyber-persona layer.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-5
Chapter 1
Figure 1-2. Relationship between the cyberspace network layers
P HYSICAL N ETWORK L AYER
1-24. The physical network layer consists of the information technology devices and infrastructure in the
physical domains that provide storage, transport, and processing of information within cyberspace, to include
data repositories and the connections that transfer data between network components (JP 3-12). Physical
network components include the hardware and infrastructure such as computing devices, storage devices,
network devices, and wired and wireless links. Components of the physical network layer require physical
1-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
security measures to protect them from damage or unauthorized access, which, if left vulnerable, could allow
a threat to gain access to both systems and critical data.
1-25. Every physical component of cyberspace is owned by a public or private entity. The physical layer
often crosses geo-political boundaries and is one of the reasons that cyberspace operations require multiple
levels of joint and unified action partner coordination. Cyberspace planners use knowledge of the physical
location of friendly, neutral, and adversary information technology systems and infrastructures to understand
appropriate legal frameworks for cyberspace operations and to estimate impacts of those operations. Joint
doctrine refers to portions of cyberspace, based on who owns or controls that space, as either blue, gray, or red
cyberspace (refer to JP 3-12). This publication refers to these areas as friendly, neutral, or enemy cyberspace
respectively.
L OGICAL N ETWORK L AYER
1-26. The logical network layer consists of those elements of the network related to one another in a way
that is abstracted from the physical network, based on the logic programming (code) that drives network
components (i.e., the relationships are not necessarily tied to a specific physical link or node, but to their ability
to be addressed logically and exchange or process data) (JP 3-12). Nodes in the physical layer may logically
relate to one another to form entities in cyberspace not tied to a specific node, path, or individual. Web sites
hosted on servers in multiple physical locations where content can be accessed through a single uniform
resource locator or web address provide an example. This may also include the logical programming to look
for the best communications route, instead of the shortest physical route, to provide the information requested.
C YBER -P ERSONA L AYER
1-27. The cyber-persona layer is a view of cyberspace created by abstracting data from the logical network
layer using the rules that apply in the logical network layer to develop descriptions of digital representations of
an actor or entity identity in cyberspace, known as a cyber-persona (JP 3-12). Cyber-personas are not confined
to a single physical or logical location and may link to multiple physical and logical network layers. When
planning and executing cyberspace operations, staffs should understand that one actor or entity (user) may have
multiple cyber-personas, using multiple identifiers in cyberspace. These various identifiers can include different
work and personal emails and different identities on different Web forums, chatrooms, and social network sites .
1-28. For example, an individual’s account on a social media website, consisting of the username and digital
information associated with that username, may be just one of that individual’s cyber-personas. Conversely,
multiple different users may share a single cyber-persona or set of cyber-personas. Planners must understand
that enemy use of cyber-personas can make attributing responsibility for cyberspace actions difficult.
ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM
1-29. The electromagnetic spectrum (EMS) - is a maneuver space essential for facilitating control within the
operational environment (OE) and impacts all portions of the OE and military operations. Based on specific
physical characteristics, the EMS is organized by frequency bands, including radio waves, microwaves, infrared
radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, x-rays, and gamma rays. Figure 1-3 on page 1-8 illustrates the
range of standard frequencies in the EMS and some of the common devices operating in those frequencies.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-7
Chapter 1
Figure 1-3. The electromagnetic spectrum
TRENDS AND CHARACTERISTICS
1-30. The rapid proliferation of cyberspace and EMS capabilities has further congested an already
challenging OE. In addition to competing with threat actors in cyberspace and the EMS, U.S. forces also
encounter challenges resulting from neutral actors. Such neutral systems as commercial aircraft and airports,
Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, and commercial cellular infrastructures contribute to
continuing congestion in cyberspace and the EMS. Figure 1-4 on page 1-9, depicts cyberspace and the EMS in
a congested OE.
1-31. Several key trends and characteristics impact a commander’s ability to use cyberspace and the EMS.
Such trends and characteristics include—
 Congested environments.
 Contested environments.
 Threats.
 Hazards.
 Terrain.
C ONGESTED E NVIRONMENTS
1-32. Both cyberspace and the EMS are increasingly congested environments that friendly, neutral, and
threat actors use to transmit and process large amounts of information. Since 2000, the Army’s use of networked
information systems in almost every aspect of operations has increased tenfold. Neutral and threat actors have
similarly expanded their use of cyberspace and the EMS for a wide range of military and non-military purposes.
1-8 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
Figure 1-4. Congestion in cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum
C ONTESTED E NVIRONMENTS
1-33. As cyberspace and the EMS continue to become more congested, the capabilities of state and non-state
actors to contest U.S. advantages in both areas have also expanded. State and non-state threats use a wide range
of advanced technologies that may represent relatively inexpensive ways for a small or materially
disadvantaged adversary to pose a significant threat to the United States. The application of low-cost cyberspace
capabilities can provide an advantage against a technology-dependent nation or organization and an asymmetric
advantage to those who could not otherwise effectively oppose U.S. military forces. Figure 1-5 on page 1-10,
depicts an operational view of cyberspace and the EMS in a contested OE.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-9
Chapter 1
Figure 1-5. Cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum in a contested environment
T HREATS
1-34. For every operation, threats are a fundamental part of an OE. A threat is any combination of actors,
entities, or forces that have the capability and intent to harm United States forces, United States national
interests, or the homeland (ADP 3-0). Threat is an umbrella term that includes any actor with the potential to
harm the United States or its interests. Threats include—
 Enemies.
 Adversaries.
 Peer threats.
 Hybrid threats.
 Insider threats.
1-35. An enemy is a party identified as hostile against which the use of force is authorized (ADP 3-0). An
enemy is also called a combatant and treated as such under the laws of war. Enemies will employ various
advanced technologies to attack Army forces in cyberspace and EMS to disrupt or destroy the ability to conduct
operations or collect information that will give friendly forces a strategic, operational, or tactical advantage.
1-36. An adversary is a party acknowledged as potentially hostile to a friendly party and against which the
use of force may be envisaged (JP 3-0). Though an adversary is not treated as a combatant, the goal is still to
prevent and deter conflict by keeping their activities within a desired state of cooperation and competition.
1-37. A peer threat is an adversary or enemy able to effectively oppose U.S. forces world-wide while
enjoying a position of relative advantage in a specific region (ADP 3-0), including cyberspace and the EMS.
Peer threats often have cyberspace and EW capabilities that are comparable to U.S. capabilities. Peer threats
1-10 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
may employ these capabilities across the competition continuum to collect intelligence, delay the deployment
of U.S. forces, degrade U.S. capabilities, and disrupt U.S. operations. Peer threats have electromagnetic attack
(EA) capabilities such as telecommunications and EMS jamming equivalent to or better than U.S. forces. Peer
threats can conduct advanced cyberspace attacks, including denial-of-service, various forms of phishing,
eavesdropping, and malware.
1-38. A hybrid threat is the diverse and dynamic combination of regular forces, irregular forces, or criminal
elements unified to achieve mutually benefitting effects (ADP 3-0). Commanders and staffs must understand
that the diversity of a hybrid threat complicates operations since hostility is coming from multiple actors
operating from various geographical territories. A hybrid threat complicates the United States' efforts to
identify, characterize, attribute, and respond to threats in cyberspace and the EMS.
1-39. Organized crime or other non-state, illegitimate organizations often make sophisticated malware
available for purchase or free, allowing even unsophisticated threat actors to acquire advanced capabilities at
little to no cost. Because of the low barriers to entry and the potentially high payoff, the United States can
expect an increasing number of adversaries to use cyberspace capabilities to attempt to negate U.S. advantages
in military capability.
1-40. An insider threat is a person with placement and access who intentionally causes loss or degradation
of resources or capabilities or compromises the ability of an organization to accomplish its mission through
espionage, providing support to international terrorism, or the unauthorized release or disclosure of information
about the plans and intentions of United States military forces (AR 381-12). Insider threats may include spies
within or working with U.S. forces, as well as personnel who may be unaware of their actions either through
deception or third party manipulation. Insider threats present unique challenges because they are trusted
individuals with authorized access to Army capabilities and sensitive operational information. Insider threats
may include spies within or working with U.S. forces.
Note. Law enforcement and counterintelligence capabilities also operate in cyberspace during
their efforts to neutralize criminal activities. Countering insider threats falls primarily within the
purview of these organizations and outside the authorized activities of the cyberspace forces.
However, information discovered in the course of authorized cyberspace operations may aid these
other organizations.
H AZARDS
1-41. A hazard is a condition with the potential to cause injury, illness, or death of personnel, damage to or
loss of equipment or property, or mission degradation (JP 3-33). Disruption to cyberspace’s physical
infrastructure often occurs due to operator errors, industrial accidents, and natural disasters. These
unpredictable events may have just as significant impact on operations as the actions of enemies. Recovery
from accidents and hazardous incidents may require significant coordination external to the DOD or the
temporary reliance on backup systems with which operators may be less familiar.
1-42. Electromagnetic energy can also impact the operational capability of military forces, equipment,
systems, and platforms. Various hazards from electromagnetic energy include electromagnetic environmental
effects, electromagnetic compatibility issues, EMI, electromagnetic pulse, and electromagnetic radiation
hazards.
1-43. Electromagnetic radiation hazards include hazards of electromagnetic radiation to personnel; hazards
of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance; hazards of electromagnetic radiation to fuels; and natural phenomena
effects such as space weather, lightning, and precipitation static.
CONFLICT AND COMPETITION
1-44. Army forces face continuous competition and conflict in cyberspace and the EMS from threats
intending to diminish friendly capabilities. Commanders must seek and exploit opportunities for success in
cyberspace and the EMS wherever and whenever authorized.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-11
Chapter 1
C OMPETITION C ONTINUUM
1-45. Cyberspace operations, EW, and spectrum management operations take place across the competition
continuum. The competition continuum describes a world of enduring competition conducted through a mixture
of cooperation, competition below armed conflict, and armed conflict Superiority in cyberspace and the EMS
enables U.S. forces to conduct operations to achieve the goals and accomplish the objectives assigned to them
by the President and Secretary of Defense. Though U.S. forces may conduct cyberspace operations and EW
during competition below the level of armed conflict, they are critical enablers to combat power when
conducting large-scale combat operations during armed conflict. Competition below armed conflict consists of
situations in which joint forces take actions outside of armed conflict against a strategic actor in pursuit of
policy objectives.
1-46. Spectrum management operations fulfill a crucial within the CEMA construct. Spectrum management
operations take place across the entire competition continuum and ensure proper coordination of EMS activities
spanning the entirety of military operations.
M ULTI -D OMAIN E XTENDED B ATTLEFIELD
1-47. The enemy seeks to employ capabilities to create effects in multiple domains to counter U.S. interests
and impede friendly operations. Threat actors will conduct activities in the information environment, space,
and cyberspace to influence U.S. decision makers and disrupt the deployment of friendly forces. Land-based
threats will attempt to impede joint force freedom of action across the air, land, maritime, space, and cyberspace
domains. They will disrupt the EMS, sow confusion, and challenge the legitimacy of U.S. actions.
Understanding how threats can present multiple dilemmas to Army forces in all domains helps Army
commanders identify (or create), seize, and exploit their opportunities. Implementing operations security
(OPSEC) is critical to protecting essential friendly information technology infrastructures, command and
control, and targeting systems. Operations security is a capability that identifies and controls critical
information, indicators of friendly force actions attendant to military operations and incorporates
countermeasures to reduce the risk of an adversary exploiting vulnerabilities (JP 3-13.3).
P OSITIONS OF R ELATIVE A DVANTAGE IN C YBERSPACE AND THE E LECTROMAGNETIC
S PECTRUM
1-48. The Army conducts cyberspace operations and EW to attain positions of relative advantage in
cyberspace and the EMS, to establish information superiority. A position of relative advantage is a location or
the establishment of a favorable condition within the area of operations that provides the commander with
temporary freedom of action to enhance combat power over an enemy or influence the enemy to accept risk
and move to a position of disadvantage (ADP 3-0).
SECTION III – CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE WARFIGHTING FUNCTIONS
1-49. This section describes how cyberspace operations and EW support the warfighting functions. It
specifies the types of cyberspace operations and EW missions and actions that contribute to the various tasks
related to each warfighting function.
COMMAND AND CONTROL
1-50. Commanders rely heavily on cyberspace and the EMS for command and control. At corps and below,
the network in the command-and-control system is the Department of Defense information network-Army
(DODIN-A). The Department of Defense information network-Army is an Army-operated enclave of the
DODIN that encompasses all Army information capabilities that collect, process, store, display, disseminate,
and protect information worldwide (ATP 6-02.71). Signal forces establish, manage, secure, and defend the
DODIN-A by conducting Department of Defense information network operations and maintaining
cybersecurity compliance to prevent intrusions into the DODIN-A. For more information on DODIN
operations, refer to FM 6-02 and ATP 6-02.71. The networks and systems that comprise the DODIN-A enable
commanders to control units, have a shared understanding of the OE, and interact with subordinate units in near
real-time.
1-12 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
1-51. EW supports command and control through electromagnetic protection (EP) to eliminate or mitigate
the negative impact of friendly, neutral, enemy, or naturally occurring EMI on command-and-control systems.
The frequency assignment and deconfliction tasks of spectrum management operations support EP (See ATP
6-02.70). Such EP tasks include—emission control, mitigating electromagnetic environmental effects,
electromagnetic compatibility, electromagnetic masking, preemptive countermeasures, and electromagnetic
warfare reprogramming. These tasks require integration with spectrum management operation for frequency
management and deconfliction. Chapter 2 of this publication and ATP 3-12.3 details information on EP.
MOVEMENT AND MANEUVER
1-52. Cyberspace operations and EW enhance friendly forces commanders’ movement and maneuver by
disrupting adversary command and control, reducing adversary and increasing friendly situational awareness,
and negatively affect the adversary’s ability to make sound decisions. Due to the range and reach of cyberspace
capabilities, cyberspace forces are often able to support friendly maneuver in close areas while simultaneously
supporting deep area operations. For information on close and deep area operations, refer to FM 3-0. For
techniques on deep operations, refer to ATP 3-94.2.
1-53. DODIN operations support movement and maneuver by establishing secure tactical networks that
allow communications with friendly forces conducting operations laterally in close and deep areas, in addition
to communications with higher headquarters in the rear area. Units use the DODIN-A as the primary means of
communication during movement and maneuver. Satellite communications, combat net radios, and wired
networks are elements of the DODIN-A used to synchronize operations, collaborate, understand the
environment, and coordinate fires. The network enables near real-time updates to the common operational
picture. The upper and lower tiers of the DODIN-A connect headquarters to subordinate, adjacent, and higher
headquarters and unified action partners.
1-54. Offensive cyberspace operations (OCO) in coordination with other forms of fires also support
movement and maneuver by opening avenues necessary to disperse and displace enemy forces. Synchronizing
OCO with other fires sets conditions that enable maneuver to gain or exploit positions of relative advantage.
OCO will be discussed in detail in Chapter 2.
1-55. EW assets support movement and maneuver by conducting operations to degrade, neutralize, or
destroy enemy combat capabilities in the EMS. Defensive EA protects friendly forces from enemy attacks
during movement and maneuver by denying the enemy the use of the EMS. Using friendly EA to counter radiocontrolled devices, such as improvised explosive devices, drones, robots, or radio-guided munitions is an
example of defensive EA. During defensive EA, EW assets conduct operations to degrade, neutralize, or destroy
enemy combat capabilities in the EMS. EW assets conduct defensive EA by employing EA capabilities such
as counter radio-controlled improvised explosive device electronic warfare and devices used for aircraft
survivability. Offensive EA supports movement and maneuver by projecting power within the time and tempo
of the scheme of maneuver. Electromagnetic jamming, electromagnetic intrusion, and electromagnetic probing
are examples of offensive EA. Electromagnetic support (ES) supports movement and maneuver by providing
combat information for a situational understanding of the OE.
1-56. A variety of EP tasks also support movement and maneuver. Spectrum managers and EW personnel
deconflict friendly frequencies to prevent or mitigate frequency interference from friendly forces. Frequency
deconfliction includes preventive and mitigating measures to ensure friendly radio devices used during
movement and maneuver tasks do not cause frequency interference to the radios used by other friendly forces.
Electromagnetic masking supports movement and maneuver by concealing electromagnetic signatures radiated
by friendly forces’ spectrum dependent systems during operations. Conducting emission control during
movement and maneuver reduces electromagnetic signatures of friendly forces’ spectrum dependent
communications and navigational systems during movement and maneuver. EW forces also employ sensors
before a movement as preemptive countermeasures. Electromagnetic security supports movement and
maneuver by denying an enemy the ability to decipher information derived from electromagnetic energy that
they intercept. These tasks are discussed in further detail in Chapter 2 of this publication and in ATP 3-12.3.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-13
Chapter 1
INTELLIGENCE
1-57. Cyberspace operations, EW, and intelligence mutually identify the cyberspace and EMS aspects of the
OE to provide recommendations for friendly courses of action during the military decision-making process.
Cyberspace and EW forces support information collection that may be used by intelligence professionals.
Conversely, intelligence operations provide products that enhance understanding of the OE, enable targeting,
and support defense in cyberspace and the EMS. It is critical that information acquired through cyberspace
operations and EW is standardized and reported to the intelligence community.
1-58. Intelligence supports cyberspace operations through the intelligence process, intelligence preparation
of the battlefield (IPB), and information collection. Intelligence at all echelons supports cyberspace operations
and EW planning, and helps measure performance and effectiveness through battle damage assessment.
Cyberspace planners leverage intelligence analysis, reporting, and production capabilities to understand the
OE, develop plans and targets, and support operations throughout the operations process. In the context of
cyberspace and the EMS, the OE includes network topology overlays that graphically depict how information
flows and resides within the operational area and how the network transports data in and out of the area of
interest.
I NTELLIGENCE P REPARATION OF THE B ATTLEFIELD
1-59. During IPB, the staff considers how the adversary or enemy utilizes cyberspace and the EMS to achieve
their objectives. Intelligence and CEMA staff also consider state and non-state actors with capability, access,
and intent to affect friendly operations as they define and analyze the area of interest.
1-60. Intelligence analysts, with support from other staff elements, evaluate enemy and adversary use of
cyberspace and the EMS. This includes evaluating aspects such as—
 Adversary or enemy use of cyberspace and the EMS.
 Reliance on networked capabilities.
 Sophistication of cyberspace attack capabilities.
 Adversary cyberspace defense capabilities.
 Adversary EW capabilities.
 Network vulnerabilities (both adversary and friendly).
 Ability to synchronize cyberspace operations with other operations.
 Adversary use of social media for social engineering.
1-61. When assessing the enemy or adversary courses of action, the intelligence staff considers how the
enemy or adversary will include cyberspace and the EMS in its operations. The commander and staff should
consider threat courses of action in cyberspace and the EMS when planning friendly operations. (See ATP 201.3 for more information about IPB).
1-62. Weather (terrestrial and space) also affects operations in cyberspace and the EMS. In assessing weather
effects, the staff considers key terrain in cyberspace and the EMS in relation to other aspects of the area of
interest and the area of operations.
E LECTROMAGNETIC S UPPORT AND S IGNALS I NTELLIGENCE
1-63. ES and signals intelligence (SIGINT) are similar in function, but SIGINT requires separate authorities.
EW personnel conduct ES to acquire information in support of a commander’s maneuver plan. No requirement
or restriction exists for EW personnel to have SIGINT authorities to conduct these activities.
1-64. EW and SIGINT personnel both identify emitters in the EMS and may cue each other for targeting,
but have distinct mission responsibilities. EW personnel characterize and identify emitters by analyzing
external signals for immediate threat recognition and warning, force protection, and targeting. ES provides
combat information that has a limited time value to support operations. ES information may be passed to
intelligence units or staff for further SIGINT analysis depending on situation and authorities. SIGINT personnel
analyze internal signal parameters to produce and disseminate intelligence, which requires SIGINT authorities.
1-14 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Operational Environment Overview
FIRES
1-65. OCO and EA tasks are part of the fires warfighting function. Cyberspace forces employ cyberspace
attacks to deny, degrade, disrupt, and destroy or otherwise affect enemies’ cyberspace or information-dependent
capabilities. EW personnel employ EA to degrade, and neutralize the enemies’ ability to use the EMS.
Cyberspace and EW effects transcends beyond cyberspace and the EMS and may result in second-and-thirdorder effects that could impact the other physical domains.
1-66. Army cyberspace and EW effects applied against enemy capabilities and weapon systems deny their
ability to communicate, track, or target. EW also supports fires by enabling lethal fires through the employment
of ES to search for, identify, and locate or localize sources of radiated electromagnetic energy used by the
enemy for targeting. Defensive EA can support fires through the deployment of decoys or noise to mask friendly
fires networks.
SUSTAINMENT
1-67. Cyberspace operations support sustainment through DODIN operations and defensive cyberspace
operations (DCO). Sustainment organizations, functions, systems, and sustainment locations that are highly
dependent on DODIN operations include—
 The global supply chain.
 Army logistics networks and information systems.
 Mobilization and power projection platforms.
 Aerial ports of debarkation.
 Seaports of debarkation.
1-68. DODIN operations establish the necessary communications to conduct sustainment functions.
Cyberspace forces defend sustainment systems when adversaries breach cybersecurity measures of networks
and systems from threat cyberspace attacks. EW supports sustainment through EP and ES, ensuring freedom
of action for DODIN operations in and through the EMS for continued sustainment support. Management,
coordination, and deconfliction of frequencies in the EMS are functions of spectrum management operations.
Refer to Chapter 2 for more information on defensive cyberspace operations-internal defensive measures
(DCO-IDM).
PROTECTION
1-69. DCO-IDM and EP tasks, in addition to the cyberspace security tasks of DODIN operations, are part of
the protection warfighting function. DODIN operations, DCO-IDM, EP, and defensive EA support protection
by securing and defending the DODIN-A. Cyberspace forces conduct DCO-IDM to detect, characterize,
counter, and mitigate ongoing or imminent threats to the DODIN-A. DODIN operations and DCO-IDM also
enable other protection tasks by providing secured communications for—
 Area security.
 Police operations.
 Personnel recovery.
 Air and missile defense.
 Detention operations.
1-70. EP involves actions to protect personnel, facilities, and equipment from friendly, neutral, or enemy use
of the EMS. EP includes measures to protect friendly personnel and equipment in a contested and congested
electromagnetic operational environment (EMOE). The EMOE is a composite of the actual and potential
electromagnetic energy radiation, conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of
capabilities and the decisions of the commander. The CEMA spectrum manager work closely with the S-6 or
G-6 spectrum manager to deconflict frequencies used by friendly forces. Friendly forces can employ proactive
measures such as emission control to reduce their electromagnetic signature, thus increasing OPSEC. Defensive
EA protects friendly forces by denying enemy use of the EMS, disrupting their ability to target, guide, or fire
weapons. Refer to Chapters 2 and 4 of this publication for more information on emission control.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 1-15