OBSERVATIONS ON C3PRO-RACCOON
The ability for malware to concurrently support three separate, custom built C2 channels is more advanced
than the majority of malware currently observed in the global threat landscape. This offers insight into the
amount of effort the malware author and actor(s) have expended to ensure that the malware is stealthy and
can remain in contact with its C2s, despite the network environment it may be running within.
UDT Library . The malware uses an open source library called UDT [3] for one of its C2 channels. UDT provides
much of the benefits of TCP but retains higher data transfer speeds over UDP. The authors likely chose the
library in order to provide the flexibility of being able to securely use UDP for C2 communication, as well as
being stealthy at the same time.
Secure Delete. The file deletion routine has been taken from publicly available secure erasure code. This
code was originally written by John Underhill and called “Secure File Shredder” [4] . The routine used in the
malware even contains the same mistake as John Underhill made, where he renames the file 780 times (30 *
26) instead of the intended 30. The only difference is that the file truncation is only performed once in the
malware, rather than 10 times, as in Underhill's code. The purpose of this code is to prevent advanced
forensics techniques from being able to recover the deleted files.
Unfinished Code . The 'du' and 'dlu' commands are interesting because they only support unloading a module
from the current process, but by creating a remote thread in a new explorer.exe . This makes little sense
because it would be a lot simpler and more effective to just unload the module in the current process. This is
likely to be an unfinished or abandoned routine that is currently not used by the actor. The older version of this
malware that Kaspersky analysed did not have any implementation for 'dlu', and the 'dll' routine did not create
a new thread in an explorer.exe process to do this work, but instead did it from its own process.
Spoofed File Dates . When a file is sent to the infected machine via the "_put" command and written to disk,
the file access times are modified to be the same as gdi32.dll's from the system directory. This makes the file
less suspicious and can also prevent some forensic time-lining.
Under Development . The older version of this malware that Kaspersky analysed was compiled using
Microsoft Visual Studio 6.0, whereas this version has been compiled with Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0. The
malware is clearly being actively developed and the developers' environment(s) are being improved.
3 http://udt.sourceforge.net/
4 http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/30453/Secure-File-Shredder
TLP-WHITE |  34