Background
The People’s Republic of China (PRC) claims sovereignty over Tibet and regards all Tibetan
independence movements as separatist threats. While the PRC uses many forms of
coercion against the Tibetan community, cyberespionage against Tibetan targets has
become a frequently used tool, especially during times of heightened tensions. The first
known incident of Chinese cyberespionage against Tibet, dubbed GhostNet, was in 2008.
This was part of a wider attempt to monitor foreign targets of national interest. There has
since been numerous cyberespionage campaigns documented against Tibetans, including
in Recorded Future’s recent RedAlpha report .
Tsinghua University is located in the Haidian District in Beijing. Dubbed “China’s MIT,” it is
one of China’s premier technical research universities. Chinese universities have often been
associated with Chinese state-sponsored cyber capabilities both directly and indirectly. In
2015, APT17 infrastructure was connected to a professor at China’s Southeast University,
and in 2017, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) partnered with Xi’An Jiaotong University to
create a cyber militia program. Tsinghua University is itself a state-owned institution and is
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-0816 | 2
among the world’s top research and engineering schools. Its students’ offensive cyber
capabilities are most famous through Blue-Lotus, a security research team composed of
fnished second in DEF CON’s 2016
Tsinghua University-affiliated individuals. The team i
capture the flag competition.
Research branches of Tsinghua University also have connections to state organizations
with a history of stealing U.S. technology. Tsinghua University’s Office of Scientific Research
and Development met with China CITIC Group for Communist Party meeting activities in
May 2018, during which they discussed strategic cooperation between enterprises and
research institutes to serve the development of the country. In the 1999 Select Committee
on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns with the PRC (the so-called
“Cox Report”), CITIC was linked to PLA covert operations and the theft of sensitive U.S.
technology. The Cox Report also cited an attempt in 1990 by CITIC to acquire a U.S. aircraft
parts manufacturer on behalf of the PLA in order to access U.S. export-controlled
aerospace technology. Further, CITIC’s former chairman, Wang Zhen, was involved in the
1996 Poly Technologies indictment stemming from the company’s attempt to smuggle
2,000 Chinese AK-47 assault rifles into the United States.
Tsinghua’s Institute of Information Systems and Engineering is also openly affiliated with
China’s National 863 and 973 programs. The 863 Program, also known as the State
High-Tech Development Plan, focuses on developing national capabilities within China’s key
technological industries, while the 973 Program, first established in 1997, focuses on
developing the basic technologies required to achieve technological superiority in the key
industries. Both programs have had the effect of making it easier for China to steal
intellectual property in order to achieve program goals.
In the past 10 years, a number of Chinese state-sponsored cyber threat actors have been
identified conducting widespread cyberespionage directly reflecting China’s policy
directives
to gain scientific, technical, and economic advantage in key strategic industries.
This activity can be observed most recently in operations by APT10, targeting managed IT
service providers, and APT17, which conducted massive supply chain attacks against the
popular software product CCleaner in 2017.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-0816 | 3
Recorded Future timeline of Tsinghua IP activity in correlation with Tibetan protests.