Challenges and Recommendations
On their own, a backdoor and a point-of-sale (PoS) malware can pose great threats to
enterprises and small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs). As a tandem, these two can lead
to stealthier and more flexible attacks.
The use of TinyLoader with a PoS threat is quite effective. Its multicomponent architecture
allows several small modules to be built depending on the need. This makes attacks less
noticeable, thus avoiding detection. The small modules also enable the secondary infection to
be successful.
The command-and-control (C&C) server of TinyLoader needs not to be a server where it gets
the components. It can be directed to connect to another site for downloading the component.
The downloaded component (secondary malware) can then report to its own C&C server.
As detailed above, TinyLoader was used like a software management suite to manage the
deployment and upgrade of both AbaddonPOS/TinyPOS. Analyzing these samples individually
would not lead to any conclusion. Acquiring only the TinyLoader executable absolutely made
no sense because one has to observe how other components are being used.
This presents challenges in both static and dynamic analysis. In static analysis of TinyLoader,
only a TCP socket connection to a pre-defined IP address and port is visible. In dynamic
analysis (where most sandboxes can only run the sample for a few minutes), a similar raw
socket connection is also seen. This means that only through actual infection can one observe
the complete infection chain—from launching tools and gathering information on the system to
secondary infection.
The businesses affected by this combined backdoor and point-of-sale threat were spread out
between single seat infections and SMBs. TinyLoader used a high numbered port to
communicate back to its own C&C server while being able to introduce additional files in the
environment via HTTP requests. This spells the importance of looking into outbound requests
(or traffic leaving the environment) aside from the common practice of restricting inbound and
outbound requests to certain known services.
Trend Micro protects customers from all threats related to TinyLoader. To protect enterprises
from malware with PoS RAM-scraping capabilities, it is best to employ endpoint application
control that reduces attack exposure by ensuring only updates associated with whitelisted
applications can be installed. Endpoint solutions such as Trend Micro™ Security, Trend
Micro™ Smart Protection Suites, and Trend Micro Worry-Free™ Business Security can protect
users systems from AbaddonPOS, TinyPOS, and TinyLoader backdoor by detecting these
malicious files. While Trend Micro detects all indicators that were discussed here, we still are
monitoring the progression of this threat.
12
Trend Micro | Backdoor as a Software Suite: How TinyLoader Distributes and Upgrades PoS Threats