CDN service Moonwalk
was blocked by the anti-piracy groups
BREIN, ACE and MPA in October 2019
after Group-IB`s report was released
The current situation on the online piracy market is developing
against the background of the actively enforced anti-piracy law
and cooperation between copyright holders and popular search
engines.
In addition, the closure of major first-wave pirate CDN services
had a significant impact on the market. After Group-IB’s report
was released, in October 2019 the anti-piracy groups BREIN, ACE,
and MPA took down Moonwalk, the most popular CDN service
at the time. Acting on behalf of these groups, law enforcement
officers disabled the servers — which ensured Moonwalk’s operation — belonging to three Dutch hosting services and two overseas
companies whose servers were physically located in the Netherlands. The shutdown of Moonwalk led to the closure of a major
CDN HDGO, with another provider, Kodik, losing a significant part
of its content. Both used the same infrastructure as Moonwalk.
Under such conditions, the behavior of pirate website administrators is characterized by a desire to eliminate risks by:
1. 2.
Diversifying content sources
Many pirate websites use several CDNs at once in case one
of them fails. In addition, CDN aggregators such as Yohoho,
Emblix, Uitools, and others are becoming increasingly popular.
Aggregators track content on all major CDNs and provide their
own video players, which makes it possible to switch CDNs
at the user’s discretion.
Optimizing database provisioning
Pirate website administrators who are constantly forced
to create new websites due to blocking have a myriad of modules and scripts that help them quickly transfer and recover
databases. To sync pirate databases, they use film IDs
of major specialized portals such as Kinopoisk and IMDB.
3. 4.
Shifting from quality to quantity
Pirates used to put most of their efforts into developing
a small number of websites operated simultaneously. Due
to search engine results being actively blocked and cleared,
however, this tactic is being used less and less often, mainly
by blocked major websites whose owners rely on their audiences’ loyalty despite the need to use blocking evasion tools.
Other webmasters prefer attracting traffic by creating many
identical sites. This way, losing one site will not result in any
significant negative consequences.
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
Increasing the share of new CDNs
that use Russian infrastructure
The shift in focus to Russian Internet service providers
is connected to three factors: (i) the seizure of the Dutch
servers that hosted Moonwalk, HDGO, and Kodik; (ii) the
availability of Russian services; and (iii) the lack of successful
and tangible legal action against Russian Internet service
providers that offer their capacities to pirate websites.
© Group−IB
Introduction to video piracy 9
The current structure of the pirated video market comprises:

Specialized advertising networks (bookmakers, casinos,
alcohol, etc.) that sponsor camrip groups, translators, CDNs,
and pirate websites.
CDNs that offer their capacities for video hosting and

streaming. In turn, these capacities are purchased by pirate
platforms from legal hosting services.


Pirate websites that embed the players belonging to one
or more CDNs and monetize content by displaying ads to users.


Users who visit pirate websites mainly through search engines
and social media.

