1. Inertial thinking in relevance analysis
Our analysis of Operation OnionDog is mainly based on the data from 360 Threat Intelligence
Center to uncover the associations between different resources. Our major discoveries are the
guise files that pretend to be HWP files and the HWP exploit files taking advantage of HWP files’
vulnerability. They both contain lure documents and OnionDog samples. But HWP exploit files
has one more malicious file type – backdoor (please see the picture below).
Picture 21 Three kinds of derivatives of HWP exploit files
We scanned the malware with our own AntiVirus engine. The result shows the backdoor belongs
to ICEFOG malware families. Further manual analysis verifies that result because distinct features
are recognized. For example, the encrypted memory is saved in the location
“%TMP%\mstmpdata.dat”. The encrypted data will be decrypted based on XOR logical operation
with the string ‘&^@~^%9?i0h’. The C&C of the backdoor is www.sejonng.org. Signs like these
seems all point to the same conclusion.
ICEFOG was revealed by Kaspersky in 2013. HWP exploit files appeared in July, 2014. Through
comparison between the timestamp of the ICEFOG backdoor and its first show-up timein
third-party (VirusTotal) analysis (see table below), it has been proven that the compile timestamp
of ICEFOD backdoor is credible. The fact that the relevant samples already existed before
Kaspersky’s report also directs to the conclusion that the backdoor sample belongs to ICEFOG.
Table 9 Relevant info of ICEFOG samples in HWP exploit files
Table 10 Relevant info of HWP exploit files
We have testified the backdoor is from ICEFOG samples. The samples of ICEFOG and OnionDog
are both released by the same HWP exploit file. With that said, according to our initial thinking,
we almost believed that the ICEFOG must be associated with OnionDog; furthermore, ICEFOG
even might be the organization behind Operation OnionDog, but is that true?
12 The Icefog APT: A Tale of Cloak and Three
Daggers,https://securelist.com/blog/research/57331/the-icefog-apt-a-tale-of-cloak-and-three-daggers/