The lack of impact from public exposure
The public exposure of commercial spyware companies creates awareness and has
gained the attention of governments and regulating bodies. Such disclosures have also
been successful at attributing malicious operations conducted by regimes against
human rights activists, journalists and civilian dissidents, indicating the lack of a moral
compass of many of Intellexa’s “customers.”
However, exposing regimes conducting these operations seems to have little effect on
these companies’ abilities to make money. It may increase the costs by making them
buy or create new exploit chains but these vendors appear to have seamlessly acquired
new exploit chains, enabling them to remain in business by jumping from one set of
exploits to another as a means of initial access. A majority of public disclosures in the
commercial spyware space focus on the political aspects of the operations along with
listing malicious domains and infrastructure but fail to tear open the inner workings of the
malware themselves. The domains and infrastructure exposed in a disclosure are owned
and operated by spyware customers themselves, often in silos, meaning that exposing
one operation typically may have no impact on all the other customers. However, the risk
of exposure will always be primarily based on the efforts put by the customer into their
anonymization chain.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 11/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
Such disclosures may have a substantial impact on the regimes (“customer”), but they
fail to impose costs on the spyware vendor themselves. What is needed is the public
disclosure of technical analyses of the mobile spyware and tangible samples enabling
public scrutiny of the malware. Such public disclosures will not only enable greater
analyses and drive detection efforts but also impose development costs on vendors to
constantly evolve their implants.
© 2024 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. View our Privacy
Policy
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 12/12