2/15/2017 Operation Kingphish: Uncovering a Campaign of Cyber Attacks against Civil Society in Qatar and… – Amnesty Insights – Medium
https://medium.com/amnesty-insights/operation-kingphish-uncovering-a-campaign-of-cyber-attacks-against-civil-society-in-qatar-and-aa40c9e08852#.l4pdvdg7d 1/19
2/15/2017 Operation Kingphish: Uncovering a Campaign of Cyber Attacks against Civil Society in Qatar and… – Amnesty Insights – Medium
https://medium.com/amnesty-insights/operation-kingphish-uncovering-a-campaign-of-cyber-attacks-against-civil-society-in-qatar-and-aa40c9e08852#.l4pdvdg7d 2/19
2/15/2017 Operation Kingphish: Uncovering a Campaign of Cyber Attacks against Civil Society in Qatar and… – Amnesty Insights – Medium
Note: throughout the report we have redacted, where necessary, names
and email addresses of individuals and organizations targeted in order to
protect their identity and safety. We have also obscured wherever possible
the pictures utilized by the attackers on the fake social media profiles, as
they have been likely stolen from people with no involvement in these
Our investigation revealed that unidentified attackers have
purposefully created and maintained what appears to be a fake online
persona, named “Safeena Malik”, in order to regularly engage in
conversations with the selected targets, and at different times and
with different pretenses try to lure them into giving away their
credentials to their Gmail account through the use of phishing attacks.
Phishing is a hacking technique that often consists of mimicking
popular online services (such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, and
Linkedin) and credibly replicating their login pages, with the goal of
stealing usernames and passwords from the designated victims by
luring them into mistakenly authenticating through such pages.
This type of attack is extremely popular, and often used against
members of civil society. It is relatively easy and cheap to orchestrate,
and if successful it grants the attackers access to victims’ personal and
professional email accounts, which can obviously reveal very sensitive
information. For example, having an activist’s email account phished
might lead to the reconstruction of their network, exposure of sources’
identities, as well as abuse of their accounts for impersonation. By
comparison, phishing attacks are likely significantly more common
than malware attacks.
Phishing attacks are normally delivered through emails soliciting the
target to open a link and login to, for example, a Google ~~-~~ like page.
The strategies used to make this solicitation credible can vary. Often,
for example, the email would falsely inform the victim that their
account has been hacked, urgently requiring a password reset.
https://medium.com/amnesty-insights/operation-kingphish-uncovering-a-campaign-of-cyber-attacks-against-civil-society-in-qatar-and-aa40c9e08852#.l4pdvdg7d 3/19
2/15/2017 Operation Kingphish: Uncovering a Campaign of Cyber Attacks against Civil Society in Qatar and… – Amnesty Insights – Medium
“Safeena Malik” has a full presence on social media but her twitter
account, created in December 2014 has only one visible tweet, dating
from 23 December 2014, a simple “hi”. We believe it is possible that
the operators of Operation Kingphish might have acquired a set of
pre ~~-~~ registered (or stolen) social media profiles online. The accounts
“Safeena Malik” follows show a clear pattern: a large number of
Middle East ~~-~~ based journalists for international publications, staff of
international human rights organizations and trade unions, and
various campaigns for migrants’ rights in Qatar.
Their Facebook account appears to be more active, and their LinkedIn
profile, has 500+ connections.
The various social media accounts communicated regularly with
several of the victims we identified, often for many months. It appears
that the attackers may have impersonated the identity of a real young
woman and stole her pictures to construct the fake profile, along with
a professional biography also stolen from yet another person. The
emails and messages sent by the fake “Safeena Malik” would normally
be timed around—before, and following—the delivery of yet another
attempt at phishing the credentials of the designated victims.