Command and Control Infrastructure
APT37 frequently exploits vulnerabilities in Hangul
Word Processor (HWP) due to the software’s
prevalence in South Korea. Further, the group
recently demonstrated access to zero-day
vulnerabilities (CVE-2018-0802) and has the
flexibility to quickly incorporate recently publicized
vulnerabilities into spear phishing and strategic web
compromise operations. These capabilities suggest
a high operational tempo and specialized expertise.
APT37 has repeatedly deployed exploits, especially
in Flash, quickly after vulnerabilities are initially
publicized (see Table 1). CVE-2016-4117, CVE
2016-1019 and CVE-2015-3043 were all exploited
by APT37 in this way. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence
confirmed that since at least November 2017, APT37
exploited a zero-day Adobe Flash vulnerability,
CVE-2018-4878, to distribute DOGCALL malware to
South Korean victims.
While use and discovery of zero-day exploits over
the past several years has expanded beyond a
nation-state dominated environment to include
commercial vendors of cyber espionage capabilities
and sophisticated financially motivated actors, access
to zero-day exploits remains a factor in distinguishing
sophisticated or well-resourced actors.
Figure 3 details the vulnerabilities exploited by
APT37, comparing the time of exploitation to the
time the CVE was released.
APT37 uses a variety of techniques for command
and control. They leverage compromised servers,
messaging platforms and cloud service providers
to avoid detection. The group often relies on
compromised sites to host second stage malware
payloads. Over time, APT37 has changed the email
providers to set up command and control accounts
in a possible attempt to cover their tracks and cause
misdirection. These tactics have been refined over the
years as APT37 evolves to evade network defenders.
APT37 has used various legitimate platforms as
command and control for its malware tools. While
some early campaigns leveraged POORAIM, which
abused AOL Instant Messenger, newer activity
deploys DOGCALL, which uses cloud storage APIs
such as pCloud and Dropbox.
APT37 relies on compromised websites to host
second stage malware. Small websites focused
on subjects such as aromatherapy and scuba
diving have been leveraged, and were most likely
compromised opportunistically and made to host
malicious payloads.
APT37 has improved its operational security over
time. For example, early 2015 use of SLOWDRIFT
involved credentials associated with Korea related
mail servers such as “Daum.net”. Later, in 2015
and early 2016, APT37 pivoted to different email
providers such as Gmail and “hmamail.com” in an
attempt to anonymize activity. Then from mid-2016
onward, APT37 began using @yandex.com and @
india.com email accounts -- possibly an attempt to
cause misattribution.
10 SPECIAL REPORT APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR 11