2 Modus operandi
This section summarizes the actor’s tactics and techniques for obtaining an
initial foothold, lateral movement and persistence. A full detailed overview of the
actor’s Tactics Techniques and Procedures (TTPs) mapped to the MITRE ATT&CK
framework can be found in chapter 6.
Initial Access
In several cases the initial access point into a victim network was a vulnerable webserver, often
versions of JBoss. Such vulnerable servers were observed to often already be compromised with
webshells, placed there by other threat actors. The actor actually leverages these other webshells
for reconnaissance and initial lateral movement activity. After this initial reconnaissance the actor
uploads one of its own webshells to the webserver. Access as initially obtained to the compromised
webserver, for example through the uploaded webshell, is kept by the actor as a precaution in the
event of losing the other primary method of persistent access, for example if the credentials for VPN
accounts were to be reset.
Lateral Movement
Once an initial foothold is established, the actor moves laterally through the network using wellknown and well-documented methods, such as dumping credentials from memory and accessing
password managers on compromised systems.
The actor specifically targets systems and people based on their role and associated privilege levels
within the organization. This method enables the actor to persistently and quickly obtain access to
highly privileged accounts, such as enterprise and domain administrators. Once such privileges have
been obtained, the actor directly shifts their means of persistence. Instead of having to rely on their
persistent malicious backdoors as command and control channel – a channel that’s essentially not
supposed to be there and subject to discovery by the victim – the actor uses the stolen credentials to
connect to the victim’s network using the corporate VPN solution.
2FA abuse
In one case, for VPN persistence, the actor did show evidence of using novel techniques. In this
case VPN access to a victim’s network was protected by 2 factor authentication (2FA), which
normally protects an asset from simple credential theft. In this case, however, the actor abused this
implementation of 2FA control with a technique that, as far as Fox-IT could determine, was developed
by the actor themselves. This use of VPN access in combination with 2FA as method of persistence to
a victim’s network is explained in more detailed in paragraph 6.3.2.
Backdoors, Open source tools & Exfiltration
With access to the victim’s network through legitimate VPN accounts and the stolen credentials
to highly privileged accounts in one or multiple domains the actor then uses a mix of (custom
developed) backdoors and open source tools to connect to and through compromised systems,
described in more depth in chapter 5.
Upon compromising a system, before deploying their custom backdoor, the actor sometimes utilizes
a custom reconnaissance script. This script collects, among other things, installed software, running
processes and open connections. Then after deploying the backdoor, the actor manually starts
Fox-IT | Operation Wocao | 5
identifying and collecting information and data on the system. Several custom tools are used to aid in
this effort. For example, a tool that outputs a recursive directory listing in a specific format allows the
actor to quickly find files and directories of interest. The actor then compresses all the files of interest
with WinRAR, sometimes copying or staging them in a temporary directory. These WinRAR archives
are then downloaded using the download functionality of one of their custom backdoor. Finally, the
actor securely removes all created executables and files, and the backdoor is closed.
2.1 Activity on an average ‘working day’
Another way to look at the previously described modus operandi is through the lens of a typical
“working day”. In this example the actor already has access to a victim’s network and is in the process
of searching for, identifying and collecting information of interest to the actor. During this process an
actor, on a typical day, would:
1. Connect to the victim’s VPN concentrator using stolen credentials and possibly a 2FA token.
2. Move laterally by deploying the custom XServer² backdoor via PowerShell on multiple servers.
3. Identify targets of interest. At this point, the actor usually takes two different paths: one to gain
additional privileges and collect more credentials, or one to identify and collect information and
data of interest.
a. When looking to gain additional privileges, connect to a domain controller using the XServer
backdoor and query the domain controller’s event logs for the usernames of highly privileged
administrators.
b. Otherwise, identify servers or workstations that may contain interesting data.
4. Compromise the identified targets:
a. Run a reconnaissance script to explore the victim’s system, checking for missing Windows
patches and running security software.
b. Execute WMI commands in search of relevant information such as password manager
databases and Office documents.
c. Deploy a keylogger to retrieve the password for the victim’s password manager.
d. Run or deploy other tooling as necessary to complete the goal.
5. Exfiltrate such relevant information from the system, by downloading a single file or by
compressing multiple files into a RAR archive.
6. Securely delete the deployed tools and exfiltrated compressed archives to hinder a forensic
investigation.

Custom tool developed by the actor to provide ‘tunneling’ capabilities

6 | Fox-IT | Operation Wocao