Tools employed
Dragonfly uses two main pieces of malware in its attacks. Both are remote access tool (RAT) type malware which
(Dragonfly vs. America, Courtesy of Russia, n.d.) provides the attackers with access and control of compromised
computers. Dragonfly’s favored malware tool is Backdoor. Oldrea, which is also known as Havex or the Energetic Bear
RAT. Oldrea acts as a backdoor (Symantec, n.d.; Symantec, n.d.) for the attackers on to the victim’s computer, allowing
them to extract data and install further malware.
Oldrea appears to be custom malware, either written by the group itself or created for it. This provides some indication
of the capabilities and resources behind the Dragonfly group.
Oldrea’s behavior once installed is to gather system information, along with lists of files, programs installed, and the root
of available drives. It will also extract data from the computer’s Outlook address book and VPN configuration files. This
data is then written to a temporary file in an encrypted format before being sent to a remote command-and-control (C&C)
server controlled by the attackers. The file obfuscation ensures anonymity of content.
The C&C servers appear to be hosted on compromised servers running content management systems, indicating that the
attackers may have used the same exploit to gain control of each server. This behavior follows the model of maskirovka.
Oldrea has a basic control panel which allows an authenticated user to download a compressed version of the stolen data
for each particular victim.
The second main tool used by Dragonfly is Trojan.Karagany. Unlike Oldrea, Karagany was available on the underground
market. The source code for version 1 of Karagany was leaked in 2010. Symantec believes that Dragonfly may have taken
this source code and modified it for its own use thereby further validating the risk of leaving cyber weaponry on the
battlefield. This version is detected by Symantec as Trojan.Karagany!gen1.
Karagany is capable of uploading stolen data, downloading new files, and running executable files on an infected
computer. Karagany has additional behaviors such as running additional plugins, using tools for collecting passwords,
taking screenshots, and cataloging documents on infected computers. The intent to analyze the data for later exploitation.
Symantec found that the majority of computers compromised by the attackers were infected with Oldrea. Karagany was
only used in around 5 percent of infections.