Lancer – An Installation Script
While attempting to locate subtle differences in code between PWNLNX1 and PWNLNX2,
BlackBerry researchers examined the C2 protocol to assess whether any modifications
were made from the earlier implants. Upon closer inspection of the custom network
protocol, an additional modification was inserted into one of the implants BlackBerry
researchers associate with BRONZE UNION / APT27 (based upon C2) was observed.
In this particular sample, one of the first items that will be communicated by the implant
to the C2 is an encoded version of the string, “LinuxOK”. Fortunately, it turned out that
this case-sensitive string was a lot less common than one would think.
After some additional digging, BlackBerry researchers identified a set of Windows PEs
named “lancer.exe”. These files turned out to be the Control Panel (discussed below)
used to issue commands to this particular set of backdoors. The binaries utilized the
exact same XOR key - “CB2FA36AAA9541F0” – for encoding network traffic as the key
observed in both families of implants.
Building on these discoveries, BlackBerry researchers identified a compressed bash
shell script inside of another shell script that was responsible for installing the rootkit
component of this particular variant on victim systems:
“e60a3a93f3930dd13b5cb115d68e4989199e366212b9809f8fc87aaa54e8e683”.
The initial script would write itself into a new file beginning at line 44 using the
following command: “tail -n +44”. Then it would decompress the content using “gzip
-cd” before executing the result. A similar script first appeared online in December of
2014 (PrudentWoo, 2014), and that original code has been reused in a number of both
malicious and benign scripts.
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 20
The installer script was over 400 lines long, including comments, and referred to itself
internally as “Lancer Remote Online Compilation System v2.0”, which aligned with the
naming scheme used in the Windows-based controllers (lancer.exe):
Figure 7: The Installation Script Referred to Itself as “Lancer” Remote Online Compilation System
The script was designed to run on both CentOS/RedHat systems and Debian/Ubuntu
systems. It came complete with a number of broken English phrases, misspellings, and
word swaps like “being” and “begin.” The version number indicated that there was likely
more than one revision of this online build system. The script additionally confirmed
earlier suspicions that at least one online build environment existed for compiling and
delivering the custom LKM rootkits (Group 1).
Three additional command line arguments were required for it to execute properly: a
“username”, a “build”, and a third variable referenced as “force_mode”, which would
force the build server to ignore an existing build for the current kernel and rebuild the
LKM rootkit. The script communicated to one of two hosts depending on whether the
installed kernel was 32-bit or 64-bit: “3232.3389[.]la” and “6464.3389[.]la” respectively.
A combination of command line “curl” and “wget” commands were used to interact
with the remote build server. If not present, a message would be printed to the console
containing the commands to install the packages via “yum” or “apt-get”. If current kernel
headers were not present on the system a similar message would be printed showing
how to install them. The inclusion of these messages indicated the attacker(s) using
the script were likely not the creator(s). The script would first authenticate to the remote
server with the supplied command line arguments similar to the pseudo request below:
GET /build/auth?args=username|build
This would be followed by a check to see if an existing LKM was already compiled for
the current header version:
GET /build/check?args=version|kernel|force_mode&token={ result from auth request }
If found, it would download, decompress, and install the module via an included “install.
sh” script. Otherwise, the kernel headers would be compressed to /tmp/header.tar.gz
and uploaded via a curl POST request to “/build/accept” with a number of additional
arguments sent as form fields. Once uploaded successfully, another request would be
made to the build server to compile the rootkit:
GET /build/compiler?args=version|kernel|version_text&token={result from auth request}
Once this process completed, the script would download the newly created LKM
package, decompress, then install the module via the included “install.sh” script. It
turned out this package of Gzip-compressed tarball would also contain the backdoors
which were unique depending on which user was specified from the command line.
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 21