The DIB is extremely vulnerable to cyber intrusion and intellectual property theft.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 16
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov
service providers. Threat
information is only useful if acted on
quickly – and if network defenders and
threat analysts work directly to connect the
dots each can uniquely see. NSA now shares
threat intelligence directly with those companies, at
classified or unclassified levels, to tip about the threat
and most importantly, how to protect against it. The
threats to the DIB are some of the most sophisticated the
nation faces, and NSA is focusing on sharing information to
the “left of theft.”
NSA regularly participates in several channels to conduct this information
sharing. One channel of note features over 420 analysts representing 36 DIB
companies, significantly expanding the collective ability of the DoD and the DIB to
rapidly defend against cyber intrusions by adversary nation-state cyber actors.
STRATEGIC CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM
How cyber secure is cyber “ready” for combat? In response to legislation that recognized
the imperative of protecting key weapons and space systems from adversary cyber
intrusions, NSA partnered closely with the DoD CIO, Joint Staff, Undersecretary of
Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment, and the Military Services to structure, design, and
execute a new cybersecurity program, focused on the most important weapons and space
systems, known as the Strategic Cybersecurity Program (SCP), with the mindset of “stop
assessing and start addressing.”
The program initially identified 12 key weapons and space systems that must be
evaluated for cybersecurity vulnerabilities that need to be mitigated. This is either due
to the existence of intelligence indicating they are being targeted by cyber adversaries
or because the systems are particularly important to warfighting. These systems cover
all warfighting domains (land, sea, air, cyber, and space). Under the auspices of the SCP,
NSA and military service partners will conduct cybersecurity evaluations, and, most
importantly, maintain cyber risk scoreboards and mitigation plans accountability in
reducing cyber risk to acceptable levels.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW
17
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov
ON THE HORIZON
NSA is responsible for ensuring that U.S. Government (USG) IT owners can secure
their most valuable information that resides on National Security Systems (NSS) —
systems that handle classified information or are otherwise critical to intelligence and
military operations. This is accomplished by sharing information on cyber threats and
vulnerabilities, assessing cybersecurity posture, and connecting system operators with
the mitigation guidance they need. In October 2020, NSA launched an expansive effort
across the Executive Branch to understand how we can better inform, drive, and
understand the activities of NSS owners to prevent, or respond to, critical
cybersecurity events, and cultivate an operationally-aligned community
resilient against the most advanced threats. These efforts across the
community will come to fruition during the first quarter of 2021 and
are expected to unify disparate elements across USG for stronger
cybersecurity at scale.
NSA Cybersecurity is also focused on combating ransomware,
a significant threat to NSS and critical infrastructure.
Ransomware activity has become more destructive and
impactful in nature and scope. Malicious actors target critical
data and propagate ransomware across entire networks,
alarmingly focusing recent attacks against U.S. hospitals. In
2020, NSA formed multiple working groups with U.S. Government
agencies and other partners to identify ways to make ransomware
operations more difficult for our adversaries, less scalable, and less
lucrative. While the ransomware threat remains significant, NSA will
continue to develop innovative ways to keep the activity at bay.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 18
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov