Glossary
For additional information about these and other terms, visit the MMPC glossary
at www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/portal/mmpc/shared/glossary.aspx.
account credentials
Information presented to a service provider to verify that the holder of the
credentials is authorized to access an account. Account credentials typically take
the form of user names paired with passwords, but other forms of identification
are possible.
ActiveX control
A software component of Microsoft Windows that can be used to create and
distribute small applications through Internet Explorer. ActiveX controls can be
developed and used by software to perform functions that would otherwise not
be available using typical Internet Explorer capabilities. Because ActiveX controls
can be used to perform a wide variety of functions, including downloading and
running programs, vulnerabilities discovered in them may be exploited by
malware. In addition, cybercriminals may also develop their own ActiveX
controls, which can do damage to a computer if a user visits a webpage that
contains the malicious ActiveX control.
Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR)
A security feature in recent versions of Windows that randomizes the memory
locations used by system files and other programs, which makes it harder for an
attacker to exploit the system by targeting specific memory locations.
adware
A program that displays advertisements. Although some adware can be
beneficial by subsidizing a program or service, other adware programs may
display advertisements without adequate consent.
ASLR
See Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR).
backdoor trojan
A type of trojan that provides attackers with remote unauthorized access to and
control of infected computers. Bots are a subcategory of backdoor trojans. Also
see botnet.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  145
Bitcoin
A form of digital currency. Bitcoins can be used to buy things online or exchange
them for real money.
botnet
A set of computers controlled by a command-and-control (C&C) computer to
execute commands as directed. The C&C computer can issue commands
directly (often through Internet Relay Chat [IRC]) or by using a decentralized
mechanism, such as peer-to-peer (P2P) networking. Computers in a botnet are
often called bots, nodes, or zombies.
buffer overflow
An error in an application in which the data written into a buffer exceeds the
current capacity of that buffer, thus overwriting adjacent memory. Because
memory is overwritten, unreliable program behavior may result and, in certain
cases, allow arbitrary code to run.
C&C
See command and control (C&C) .
CCM
Short for computers cleaned per mille (thousand). The number of computers
cleaned for every 1,000 executions of the Microsoft Malicious Software Removal
Tool (MSRT). For example, if the MSRT has 50,000 executions in a particular
location in the first quarter of the year and removes infections from 200
computers, the CCM for that location in the first quarter of the year is 4.0 (200 ÷
50,000 × 1,000). Also see encounter rate.
clean
To remove malware or potentially unwanted software from an infected
computer. A single cleaning can involve multiple disinfections.
cloud-based detection
A detection signature that detects files that have been automatically identified as
malicious through the cloud-based protection feature of Windows Defender.
command and control (C&C)
A server that acts as a command center for one or more compromised
computers. Botnet operators use C&C servers to issue commands to computers
in the botnet.
146 GLOSSARY
credentials
See account credentials.
cross-site scripting
Abbreviated XSS. An attack technique in which an attacker inserts malicious
HTML and JavaScript into a vulnerable Web page, often in an effort to distribute
malware or to steal sensitive information from the Web site or its visitors.
Despite the name, cross-site scripting does not necessarily involve multiple
websites. Persistent cross-site scripting involves inserting malicious code into a
database used by a web application, potentially causing the code to be
displayed for large numbers of visitors.
Data Execution Prevention (DEP)
A security technique designed to prevent buffer overflow attacks. DEP enables
the system to mark areas of memory as non-executable, which prevents code in
those memory locations from running.
DDoS
See distributed denial of service (DDoS).
DEP
See Data Execution Prevention (DEP).
detection signature
A set of characteristics that can identify a malware family or variant. Signatures
are used by antimalware products to determine whether a file is malicious or
not. Also see definition.
detonation chamber
A sandbox environment in which potentially dangerous files can be
automatically launched and monitored for possible malicious activity.
disclosure
Revelation of the existence of a vulnerability to a third party.
disinfect
To remove a malware or potentially unwanted software component from a
computer or to restore functionality to an infected program. Compare with
clean.
distributed denial of service (DDoS)
A form of denial of service (DoS) that uses multiple computers to attack the
target. Considerable resources may be required to exhaust a target computer
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  147
and cause it to fail to respond. Often multiple computers are used to perform
these types of malicious attack and increase the attack’s chances of success. This
can occur, for example, when a number of compromised computers, such as
those that comprise a botnet, are commandeered and ordered to access a
target network or server over and over again within a small period of time.
DNS
See Domain Name System.
Domain Name System
The infrastructure used for name resolution on the Internet. It comprises a
hierarchical collection of name servers which translate alphanumeric domain
names to numeric IP addresses, and vice versa.
downloader
See downloader/dropper.
downloader/dropper
A form of trojan that installs other malicious files to a computer that it has
infected, either by downloading them from a remote computer or by obtaining
them directly from a copy contained in its own code.
dropper
See downloader/dropper .
encounter
An instance of security software detecting a threat and blocking, quarantining,
or removing it from the computer.
encounter rate
The percentage of computers running Microsoft real-time security software that
report detecting malware or potentially unwanted software, or report detecting
a specific threat or family, during a period. Also see infection rate.
exploit
Malicious code that takes advantage of software vulnerabilities to infect a
computer or perform other harmful actions.
exploit kit
A collection of exploits bundled together and sold as commercial software. A
typical kit contains a collection of web pages that contain exploits for
vulnerabilities in popular web browsers and add-ons, along with tools for
managing and updating the kit.
148 GLOSSARY
firewall
A program or device that monitors and regulates traffic between two points,
such as a single computer and the network server, or one server to another.
generic
A type of signature that is capable of detecting a variety of malware samples
from a specific family, or of a specific type.
hash
Text that has been encoded using a one-way cryptographic function that
prevents it from being decrypted. Also refers to a checksum produced by a hash
function to identify or authenticate data.
heuristics
A tool or technique that can help identify common patterns. This can be useful
for making generic detections for a malware family.
IFrame
Short for inline frame. An IFrame is an HTML document that is embedded in
another HTML document. Because the IFrame loads another webpage, it can be
used by criminals to place malicious content, such as a script that downloads
and installs spyware, into non-malicious HTML pages that are hosted by trusted
websites.
in the wild
Said of malware that is currently detected on active computers connected to the
Internet, as compared to those confined to internal test networks, malware
research laboratories, or malware sample lists.
infection
The presence of malware on a computer, or the act of delivering or installing
malware on a computer. Also see encounter.
infection rate
See CCM.
jailbreaking
See rooting.
Malicious Software Removal Tool
A free tool that Microsoft designed to help identify and remove specific
prevalent malware families from customer computers. An updated version of
the tool is released each month through Windows Update and other updating
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  149
services. The MSRT is not a replacement for an up-to-date real-time antivirus
solution.
malware
Short for malicious software. The general name for programs that perform
unwanted actions on a computer, such as stealing personal information. Some
malware can steal banking details, lock a computer until the user pays a ransom,
or use the computer to send spam. Viruses, worms and trojans are all types of
malware.
malware impression
A single instance of a user attempting to visit a page known to host malware and
being blocked by SmartScreen Filter in Microsoft Edge or Internet Explorer. Also
see phishing impression.
man-in-the-middle attack
A form of eavesdropping in which a malicious hacker gets in the middle of
network communications. The malicious hacker can then manipulate messages
or gather information without the people doing the communication knowing.
monitoring tool
Software that monitors activity, usually by capturing keystrokes or screen
images. It may also include network sniffing software. Also see password stealer
(PWS).
MSRT
See Malicious Software Removal Tool.
P2P
See peer-to-peer (P2P).
password stealer (PWS)
Malware that is specifically used to transmit personal information, such as user
names and passwords. A PWS often works in conjunction with a keylogger. Also
see monitoring tool.
payload
The actions conducted by a piece of malware for which it was created. Payloads
can include, but are not limited to, downloading files, changing system settings,
displaying messages, and logging keystrokes.
150 GLOSSARY
peer-to-peer (P2P)
A system of network communication in which individual nodes are able to
communicate with each other without the use of a central server.
phishing
A method of credential theft that tricks Internet users into revealing personal or
financial information online. Phishers use phony websites or deceptive email
messages that mimic trusted businesses and brands to steal personally
identifiable information (PII), such as user names, passwords, credit card
numbers, and identification numbers.
phishing impression
A single instance of a user attempting to visit a known phishing page and being
blocked by SmartScreen Filter in Microsoft Edge or Internet Explorer. Also see
malware impression.
potentially unwanted application (PUA)
A program that doesn't meet the criteria to be considered unwanted software,
but still exhibits behaviors that may be considered undesirable, particularly in
enterprise environments.
PUA
See potentially unwanted application (PUA) .
ransomware
A type of malware that prevents use of a computer or access to the data that it
contains until the user pays a certain amount to a remote attacker (the
“ransom”). Computers that have ransomware installed usually display a screen
containing information on how to pay the “ransom.” A user cannot usually
access anything on the computer beyond the screen.
rogue security software
Software that appears to be beneficial from a security perspective but that
provides limited or no security capabilities, generates a significant number of
erroneous or misleading alerts, or attempts to socially engineer the user into
participating in a fraudulent transaction.
rooting
Obtaining administrative user rights on a mobile device through the use of
exploits. Device owners sometimes use such exploits intentionally to gain access
to additional functionality, but these exploits can also be used by attackers to
infect devices with malware that bypasses many typical security systems. The
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  151
term “rooting” is typically used in the context of Android devices; the
comparable process on iOS devices is more commonly referred to as
jailbreaking.
rootkit
A program whose main purpose is to perform certain functions that cannot be
easily detected or undone by a system administrator, such as hiding itself or
other malware.
sandbox
A specially constructed portion of a computing environment in which potentially
dangerous programs or processes may run without causing harm to resources
outside the sandbox.
SEHOP
See Structured Exception Handler Overwrite Protection (SEHOP).
signature
See detection signature.
social engineering
A technique that defeats security precautions by exploiting human
vulnerabilities. Social engineering scams can be both online (such as receiving
email messages that ask the recipient to click the attachment, which is actually
malware) and offline (such as receiving a phone call from someone posing as a
representative from one’s credit card company). Regardless of the method
selected, the purpose of a social engineering attack remains the same—to get
the targeted user to perform an action of the attacker's choice.
software bundler
A program that installs unwanted software on a computer at the same time as
the software the user is trying to install, without adequate consent.
spam
Bulk unsolicited email. Malware authors may use spam to distribute malware,
either by attaching the malware to email messages or by sending a message
containing a link to the malware. Malware may also harvest email addresses for
spamming from compromised machines or may use compromised machines to
send spam.
152 GLOSSARY
spear phishing
Phishing that targets a specific person, organization, or group, containing
additional information associated with that person, organization, or group to
lure the target further into a false sense of security to divulge more sensitive
information.
spyware
A program that collects information, such as the websites a user visits, without
adequate consent. Installation may be without prominent notice or without the
user’s knowledge.
SQL injection
A technique in which an attacker enters a specially crafted Structured Query
Language (SQL) statement into an ordinary web form. If form input is not
filtered and validated before being submitted to a database, the malicious SQL
statement may be executed, which could cause significant damage or data loss.
Structured Exception Handler Overwrite Protection (SEHOP)
A security technique designed to prevent exploits from overwriting exception
handlers to gain code execution. SEHOP verifies that a thread’s exception
handler list is intact before allowing any of the registered exception handlers to
be called.
targeted attack
A malware attack against a specific group of companies or individuals. This type
of attack usually aims to get access to the computer or network, before trying to
steal information or disrupt the infected machines.
tool
In the context of malware, a software program that may have legitimate
purposes but may also be used by malware authors or attackers.
trojan
A generally self-contained program that does not self-replicate but takes
malicious action on the computer.
unwanted software
A program with potentially unwanted functionality that may affect the user’s
privacy, security, or computing experience.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  153
virus
Malware that replicates, typically by infecting other files in the computer, to
allow the execution of the malware code and its propagation when those files
are activated.
vulnerability
A weakness, error, or poor coding technique in a program that may allow an
attacker to exploit it for a malicious purpose.
watering hole attack
A type of targeted attack that involves planting malware at websites visited by
people in specific industries or with specific interests.
wild
See in the wild.
worm
Malware that spreads by spontaneously sending copies of itself through email
or by using other communication mechanisms, such as instant messaging (IM)
or peer-to-peer (P2P) applications.
XSS
See cross-site scripting.
zero-day exploit
An exploit that targets a zero-day vulnerability.
zero-day vulnerability
A vulnerability in a software product for which the vendor has not yet published
a security update.
154 GLOSSARY