Not the quotation you’re expecting
One of the tactics used in operations by these groups is highly targeted spear-phishing
messages. They register typo-squatting domains, impersonating legitimate companies. The
emails are well written, with an abundance of detail. They explain why the company has chosen
to book that particular hotel. By checking the sender information, it’s possible to determine
whether the company actually exists. However, there is a small difference between the domain
used to send the email and the real one.
https://securelist.com/revengehotels/95229/ 1/7
11/29/2019 RevengeHotels: cybercrime targeting hotel front desks worldwide | Securelist
An email sent to a hotel supposedly from an attorney’s office
This spear-phishing message, written in Portuguese, has a malicious file attached misusing the
name of a real attorney office, while the domain sender of the message was registered one day
before, using a typo-squatting domain. The group goes further in its social engineering effort: to
convince the hotel personnel about the legitimacy of their request, a copy of the National Registry
of Legal Entities card (CNPJ) is attached to the quotation.
The attached file, Reserva Advogados Associados.docx (Attorneys Associates
Reservation.docx), is a malicious Word file that drops a remote OLE object via template injection
to execute macro code. The macro code inside the remote OLE document contains PowerShell
commands that download and execute the final payload.
PowerShell commands executed by the embedded macro
In the RevengeHotels campaign, the downloaded files are .NET binaries protected with the Yoda
Obfuscator. After unpacking them, the code is recognizable as the commercial RAT RevengeRAT.
An additional module written by the group called ScreenBooking is used to capture credit card
data. It monitors whether the user is browsing the web page. In the initial versions, back in 2016,
https://securelist.com/revengehotels/95229/ 2/7
11/29/2019 RevengeHotels: cybercrime targeting hotel front desks worldwide | Securelist
the downloaded files from RevengeHotels campaigns were divided into two modules: a backdoor
and a module to capture screenshots. Recently we noticed that these modules had been merged
into a single backdoor module able to collect data from clipboard and capture screenshots .
In this example, the webpage that the attacker is monitoring is booking.com (more specifically, the
page containing the card details). The code is specifically looking for data in Portuguese and
English, allowing the attackers to steal credit card data from web pages written in these
languages.
In the ProCC campaigns, the
downloaded files are Delphi
binaries. The backdoor installed in
the machine is more customized
than that used by RevengeHotels:
it’s developed from scratch and is Title searched by the malware in order to capture the screen
able to collect data from the contents
clipboard and printer spooler, and
capture screenshots . Because the
personnel in charge of confirming reservations usually need to pull credit card data from OTA
websites, it’s possible to collect card numbers by monitoring the clipboard and the documents
sent to the printer.
Title searched by the malware in order to capture the screen
contents
Screenshot is captured when the user copies something to the clipboard or makes a print
request
https://securelist.com/revengehotels/95229/ 3/7
11/29/2019 RevengeHotels: cybercrime targeting hotel front desks worldwide | Securelist