Retail
© Positive Technologies
Web attacks 50%
i
Malware use 41%
i
Social engineering 36%
i
Credential compromise 9%
i
i
Hacking 5%
i
i
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Figure 35. Retail: attack methods used in Q4 2019
i
22
© Positive Technologies
Payment card information
Personal data
Credentials
Client databases
32% 9% 59%
21% 7% 7% 64%
Web resources
Computers, servers,
and network equipment
POS terminals and ATMs
Figure 36. Attack targets Figure 37. Data stolen
At the start of the quarter, hackers involved in attacks collectively referred to as MageCart compromised
Sixth June, an online clothes store developed on Magento. Attackers injected a JavaScript sniffer (a
scriptlet for stealing payment card information) into the site. To make the sniffer harder to detect, the
hackers registered a domain name (mogento[.]info) that could be easily confused with that of Magento.
The fake web resource was used to distribute malicious components and receive the stolen payment
card information.
What is MageCart?
MageCart is a class of attacks on payment-enabled websites, such as online stores. MageCart is also
used to refer to the hacker groups behind these attacks. In this attack, hackers compromise a site
and inject a special JavaScript script ("sniffer") into the payment page. When a user enters payment
card information on the compromised site, the sniffer sends this information to the hackers' server.
These attacks are sometimes called web skimming.
Web skimming is so widespread now that different MageCart groups sometimes attack the same site
independently of each other. For instance, PerimeterX concluded that sniffers similar to those found in
the attack on Sixth June were installed on five other websites, including PEXSuperstore.com. Yet they
also found another sniffer at PEXSuperstore.com, presumably installed by a different group of attackers.
Same as in the previous quarter, there were MageCart supply chain attacks. For instance, one group
compromised the Google Cloud storage of Volusion and injected a sniffer which was automatically pushed
to Volusion-based online stores. The estimated number of victims ranges from 6,500 to 20,000 sites.
When compromising online resources and installing JavaScript sniffers, attackers do their best to evade
detection. For instance, in the case of Volusion, attackers used the domain name volusion-cdn[.]com
to mask illegitimate data transfer as communication with Volusion servers. The same trick was used
in attacks on Magento-based stores. Another trend in hiding JavaScript sniffers is to make their code
as small as possible. In Q4 2019, Malwarebytes detected attacks in which just a single line of code was
injected. That line downloaded a JavaScript sniffer from payment-mastercard[.]com, an address that
belonged to the attackers.
23
Figure 38. Link to a fake payment data input form injected into the compromised site
It was also found that the domain name payment-mastercard[.]com was involved in other attacks. That
domain was used to load a fake form for payment data input, imitating the input form of a legitimate
payment service provider. After the user entered payment information into the phishing form, the data
went to the attackers' server, and the user was redirected to the original page of the provider.
Retail companies must keep in mind that they can become victims of ransomware just like any other
industry. For instance, in Q4 2019 Arrigo Automotive Group lost $250,000 in this kind of attack.
APT groups attack retail companies, too. For example, PT ESC detected APT attacks by the TA505
group against retail companies in Japan.
Figure 39. Email from TA505 to a Japanese retail company
24