S ince 2005, Chinese cyber attacks against U.S. systems have increased at an alarming rate. However, the term “attack” carries unwanted
connotations; these unwarranted incursions are more likely reconnaissance
missions to collect intelligence on U.S. military systems, to spot vulner­
abilities or plant trap-doors or viruses in our systems, and to ensure that
China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has an immediate advantage in the
event of war involving America and China. If the incursions were “attacks,”
then our systems would be down and destroyed. Instead, these computer
reconnaissance measures appear to conform to an old Chinese stratagem: “a
victorious army first wins and then seeks battle. A defeated army first battles
and then seeks victory.” Reconnaissance via computer to spot vulnerabilities
before the first battle fits the stratagem well.
The United States, of course, is not the only country accusing the Chi­
nese of unwarranted incursions. Germany, England, France, Japan, Taiwan,
Australia, and others have also been Chinese targets. When one views these
events in the light of open-source accounts of Chinese information opera­
tions (IO) theory over the past several years, there is much circumstantial
evidence to find China guilty as accused. The only actual forensic evidence,
of course, is classified and located in the security agencies of the countries
that China has electronically invaded.
This article explains Chinese military thought that supports their cyberattack activities. While other articles focus on who was attacked and how many
times, this article focuses more on the theory behind the attacks, especially the
PLA’s use of electronic stratagems for their computer network operations and
the use of surrogates such as patriotic hacker groups. The article reviews Chi­
nese incursions since 2005 and examines open-source assessments provided
by some of the most important Chinese information warfare theorists.
The PLA has followed theory with practice. Computer network operations
have become part of the peacetime strategic activities of the PLA. More
worrisome is the purpose of these incursions. Is it reconnaissance? Or is the
Military Review  November-December 2008 47
purpose of these incursions to place Trojan horses
or some other device into U.S. and other partner
systems to disable or destroy them in case of war?
As one reads about Chinese information warfare
developments, it becomes clear that China’s poten­
tial intentions raise questions.