Exploitation and Malware Execution
Upon opening the above attachments, the recipient will be presented with a document that
is a direct copy of a blog post or report released by the think tank organization being
impersonated. At first glance, everything might look legitimate, but in the background the
target user has likely just been infected with QuasarRAT. QuasarRAT is a freely available
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
When the malicious RTF document is opened, two things happen that allow the attacker
malware to run. First, the “packager trick” is leveraged in order to embed the initial
QuasarRAT dropper (qrat.exe) in the malicious RTF document. Its called the “packager trick”
because any file embedded in an RTF file using packager will be automatically dropped to
the %tmp% folder (c:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Temp) when the RTF document
is opened. Second, the threat actors exploit CVE-2017-8570 to achieve code execution via a
malicious “scriptlet” file, or .sct file, which is also embedded in the malicious RTF document.
The contents of the malicious scriptlet file (displayed below) clearly show the threat actor
executing the initial “qrat.exe” dropper from the current user’s %tmp% directory.
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
Network\microsoft_network\1.0.0.0 and unpacks/drops the final QuasarRAT binary
named microsoft_network.exe.
The malware also contains an embedded .NET wrapper DLL for creating and managing
scheduled tasks on Windows systems. The file, named Microsoft.Win32.TaskScheduler.dll,
is digitally signed by a certificate from AirVPN .
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
This DLL is used to create a scheduled task that points to the QuasarRAT binary,
microsoft_network.exe, allowing it to remain persistent after reboot.
As seen in the image above, the QuasarRAT scheduled task is named
Microsoft_Security_Task and runs at 12:00 AM each day. Once the task is triggered, it will
then repeat every 5 minutes for 60 days. When executed, microsoft_network.exe will
initiate a request to freegeoip.net in order to determine the geographical location of the
infected host. Immediately following the request, the malware will begin to beacon over an
encrypted connection to the threat actor’s command and control domain tautiaos.com
(43.249.37.199) . Several related samples were identified and are included in the File
Indicators section below.