Tools for attack
To carry out target attacks in 2014 the hackers
have finalized development of their core malware
Anunak that is used along with the following tools:
|Program|Purpose of use|
|---|---|
|Mimikatz|to get passwords from local anddomain accounts|
|MBR Eraser|to crack operating systems|
|SoftPerfectNetwork Scanner|to scan LAN|
|Cain & Abel|to get passwords|
|SSHD backdoor|to get passwordsand remote access|
|Ammy Admin|for remote control|
|Team Viewer|for remote control|
According to our laboratory classification the
main malware is “Anunak”. This trojan is used for
target attacks only, mainly on banks and payment
systems. Target usage of this program allows it to
remain poorly explored, providing it a good survivability inside corporate networks. The source code of
the bank trojan program Carberp was used in some
places of this malware. “Anunak” has the following
feature set:

The software called “Mimikatz” is built in this
program. This is an open source software that allows to obtain passwords of user accounts logged
in the Windows system. However, this software
was considerably changed: while maintaining the
capability to get account passwords the functions
of user interaction and of information output for
errors and program execution were eliminated.
Thus, when the malicious program is executed
on the server, it will secretly compromise all the

3
domain and local accounts, including administrator accounts. To get account passwords it is
sufficient to enter two commands in succession:
“privilege::debug” and “sekurlsa::logonpasswords”. When this program is executed on a
domain controller or an e-mail server it compromises virtually all the domain accounts, including administrators.


There is also the possibility to add a file into the
firewall exclusion list by creating the corresponding rule with the utility “Netsh”.


The functions of keypress grabber as well as the
function of screenshot creation are implemented
in the program.


There are also the functions to interact with the
bank system iFOBS.


The malware sends key information, screenshots
and CAB-archives to its management server.


The program is able to secretly make changes to
a number of system files, presumably to remove
the limitations of Microsoft Windows desktop
operating systems on the number of users that
may simultaneously connect to the corresponding PC using RDP to administer it remotely.


There is the ability to download arbitrary executable files from the management server and run
them. One of these files is the program “AmmyAdmin” that may be run with the arguments “-service”
and “-nogui” that force it to start as a service without
user interface. “AmmyAdmin” allows to connect
with another computer that has the same software
through the server “rl.ammyy.com” using the IP
address and the unique identifier. As a result, the
attacker gets remote access to the user computer
with the running program “AmmyAdmin” bypassing
firewalls. The window screenshot is shown in the
figure below:
When the attackers gain access to servers running
operating systems of the Linux family they use SSH
backdoor that transmits to the malicious server the
login/password data used to access the servers and
provides attackers remote access to the servers.
To provide access to the server of interest the attackers may appropriately modify rules for firewalls
Microsoft TMG, CISCO, etc.
When the attackers yet had no major malware
that would secretly install the program “AmmyAdmin” and report to the attackers a remote access
password, they used a malicious program known
as “Barus”. This malware is used rarely and the last
time we met it in 2013. This malicious program is
developed by Russian-speaking authors. In the
control panel you can notice a field “Ammy ID”, its
usage allowed the attackers to connect remotely.
4