About the research
In this quarter's report, Positive Technologies shares information on the
most important and emerging IT security threats. Information is drawn from
our own expertise, outcomes of numerous investigations, and data from
authoritative sources.
For the purposes of this report, any particular mass incident (such as a vi
rus attack in which criminals send phishing messages to a large number of
targets) is counted as one unique security threat. Terms used in this report:
A cyberthreat is a combination of factors and circumstances that create
the risk of information security compromise. In this report, we look at cyber
threats in terms of the actions of malefactors in cyberspace who attempt
to breach an information system in order to steal money or data, or with
other intentions potentially causing harm to government, business, or indi
viduals. Attacker actions may be directed against the target company's IT
infrastructure, workstations, mobile devices, other equipment, or at people
as a factor in cyberspace.
A cyberattack consists of unauthorized actions targeting information sys
tems by cybercriminals leveraging techniques and software to obtain ac
cess to information, impair the normal functioning or availability of systems,
or to steal, alter, or delete information.
An attack target is the target of unauthorized actions by cybercriminals. In
cases when social engineering is used to obtain information directly from
an individual, client, or employee, the attack target is "Humans." On the
other hand, when social engineering is part of an attempt to place malware
on corporate infrastructure or on the computer of an individual, the attack
target is "Computers, servers, and network equipment."
Attack motive is the overall goal of cybercriminals. If an attack results in
theft of payment card information, the motive is "data theft."
Attack methods are a set of techniques used to achieve a goal. For instance,
an attacker might perform reconnaissance, detect vulnerable network ser
vices available for connection, exploit vulnerabilities, and get access to re
sources or information. For the purposes of this report, such a process is
referred to as "hacking." Credential compromise and web attacks are put in
separate categories for greater granularity.
Victim categories are the economic sectors in which the attacked com
panies operate (or individuals, if the attack was indiscriminate with respect
to employer). For example, the "Hospitality and entertainment" category
includes companies providing paid services, such as consulting agencies,
hotels, and restaurants. The "Online services" category includes platforms
where users can fulfill their needs online, such as ticket and hotel aggrega
tor websites, blogs, social networks, chat platforms and other social media
resources, video sharing platforms, and online games. Large-scale cyber
attacks affecting more than one industry (most often, malware outbreaks)
have been placed in the "Multiple industries" category.
In our view, the majority of cyberattacks are not made public due to repu
tational risks. The result is that even organizations that investigate incidents
and analyze activity by hacker groups are unable to perform a precise count.
This research is conducted in order to draw the attention of companies and
23
ordinary individuals who care about the state of information security to the
key motives and methods of cyberattacks, as well as to highlight the main
trends in the changing cyberthreat landscape.