Observed activities of concern
As we have researched this threat, we have put into place monitoring and scanning to gain an
PDF created with the PDFmyURL understanding of the scope of this threat and the behaviors of infected devices Our analysis has web to PDF API !
understanding of the scope of this threat and the behaviors of infected devices. Our analysis has
shown that this is a global, broadly deployed threat that is actively seeking to increase its footprint.
While our research continues, we have also observed activity potentially associated with this actor
that indicates possible data exfiltration activity.
In early May, we observed infected devices conducting TCP scans on ports 23, 80, 2000 and 8080.
These ports are indicative of scanning for additional Mikrotik and QNAP NAS devices, which can be
found using these ports. These scans targeted devices in more than 100 countries.
We also used our telemetry to discover potentially infected devices globally. We evaluated their
collective behavior to try and identify additional features of the C2 infrastructure. Many of these
victim IPs appeared to demonstrate behavior that strongly indicated data exfiltration.
Finally, on May 8, we observed a sharp spike in VPNFilter infection activity. Almost all of the newly
acquired victims were located in Ukraine. Also of note, a majority of Ukrainian infections shared a
separate stage 2 C2 infrastructure from the rest of the world, on IP 46.151.209[.]33. By this point,
we were aware of the code overlap between BlackEnergy and VPNFilter and that the timing of
previous attacks in Ukraine suggested that an attack could be imminent. Given each of these
factors, and in consultation with our partners, we immediately began the process to go public before
completing our research.
As we continued to move forward with the public disclosure, we observed another substantial
increase in newly acquired VPNFilter victims focused in Ukraine on May 17. This continued to drive
our decision to publish our research as soon as possible.
Diagram 1. New observed VPNFilter infections over time