AutoRun.Inf
Previous versions of Stuxnet did not use the LNK 0-day exploit, but instead spread via an autorun.inf file. Re­
source 207 is a 500kb file that was only present in the older version of Stuxnet, and was removed in the new
version.
An autorun.inf file is a configuration file placed on removable drives that instructs Windows to automatically ex­
ecute a file on the removable drive when the drive is inserted. Typically, one would place the autorun.inf file and
executable in the root directory of the drive. However, Stuxnet uses a single file. Resource 207 is an executable
file and also contains a correctly formatted autorun.inf data section at the end.
When autorun.inf files are parsed by the Windows OS, the parsing is quite forgiving, meaning that any charac­
ters that are not understood as legitimate autorun commands are skipped. Stuxnet uses this to its advantage by
placing the MZ file first inside the autorun.inf file. During parsing of the autorun.inf file all of the MZ file will be
ignored until the legitimate autorun commands that are appended at the end of the file are encountered. See the
header and footer of the autorun.inf file as shown in the following diagrams.
Figure 15
Autorun.inf header
Figure 16
Autorun.inf footer
When we show only the strings from the footer we can see that they are composed of legitimate autorun com­
mands:
Figure 17
Hidden autorun commands
Notice that Stuxnet uses the autorun commands to specify the file to execute as the actual autorun.inf file. Using
this trick, the autorun.inf file will be treated as a legitimate autorun.inf file first and later as a legitimate execut­
able file.
In addition to this, Stuxnet also uses another trick to enhance the chances
that it will be executed. The autorun commands turn off autoplay and then
add a new command to the context menu. The command that is added is
found in %Windir%\System32\shell32.dll,-8496. This is actually the “Open”
string. Now when viewing the context menu for the removable device the user
will actually see two “Open” commands.
One of these Open commands is the legitimate one and one is the command
added by Stuxnet. If a user chooses to open the drive via this menu, Stuxnet
will execute first. Stuxnet then opens the drive to hide that anything suspi­
cious has occurred.
Figure 18
Two “Open” commands