Executive summary
Operation Wocao (我操, “Wǒ cāo”, used as “shit” or “damn”) is the name that
Fox-IT uses to describe the hacking activities of a Chinese based hacking group.
This report details the profile of a publicly underreported threat actor that Fox‑IT
has dealt with over the past two years. Fox-IT assesses with high confidence
that the actor is a Chinese group and that they are likely working to support the
interests of the Chinese government and are tasked with obtaining information
for espionage purposes. With medium confidence, Fox-IT assesses that the tools,
techniques and procedures are those of the actor referred to within the industry
as APT20. We have identified victims of this actor in 10 countries, in government
entities, managed service providers and across a wide variety of industries,
including Energy, Health Care and High-Tech.
Beyond the technical details, this report should serve to remind us all how focused and resultoriented high-end threat actors work to achieve their goals, and that there are still threat actors
active that are almost completely unknown to the public. This actor profile reveals that:
• They carry out most of their activities through abusing legitimate access channels. VPN access
is an example of such a channel, and we have even seen this actor abuse 2FA soft tokens.
• For back-up purposes, they keep additional backdoors in place.
• They move through the network, directly singling out workstations of employees with privileged
access (administrators).
• On these systems, the contents of passwords vaults (password managers) are directly targeted
and retrieved.
• As much as is possible, they remove file system based forensic traces of their activities, making it
much harder for investigators to determine what happened after the fact.
• On the basis of the above, an attacker can efficiently achieve their goal of exfiltrating data,
sabotaging systems, maintaining access and jumping to additional targets.
• Overall the actor has been able to stay under the radar even though the tools and techniques
they use for their hacking operations are relatively simple and to the point.
Knowing how high end threat actors work should also remind us that we, the defenders, have to
continually revisit our defensive strategies:
• Zero Trust or Robust segmentation must be one of the guiding principles of any infrastructure,
both for systems and identities. As part of that, leveraging Microsoft’s Enhanced Security
Administrative Environment (ESAE) where applicable will greatly increase your resilience and can
prevent many attacks from succeeding.
• Timely detection of and adequate response to any serious incident depends on a combination of
high-level and low-level telemetry from network and endpoints.
2 | Fox-IT | Operation Wocao