Executable Variant
We were able to find 7 executables associated with KOCTOPUS. All of these executables have been compiled using
Pure Basic and have the same compile date (February 1st 2018) and almost all of them were recently uploaded to
VirusTotal.
Having the same compile time might indicate that they have been developed or modified by an automated tool.
After further analysis we identified that all of these samples have been generated using a Bat to Exe Converter
tool. In fact, the actor has used a tool to convert its batch loader to an executable. The compile time is predefined
in this application and does not show the right compilation time. We believe the right compilation time is around
the time that the sample has been uploaded to VirusTotal.
27
Figure 29: Bat to exe convertor
The samples are using different names to pretend they are legitimate applications. Here are some of the names
used by these samples:


“IATA ONE ID.exe”: This has been distributed through a spam campaign on Jan 6 [th], 2021. It is using
the IATA ONE ID icon to pretend it is that software. ONE ID is a fairly recent concept introduced by IATA
for contactless identity management that leverages biometric technology. This indicates that this actor is
constantly monitoring new IATA technologies to update its toolsets respectively.


“BSPlinkUpdaterV4.exe”: Similar to the “IATA ONE ID” this has been specifically designed to target airlines
that are using BSPLink software.


“Federal Skilled Worker Program Eligible Occupations Canada Immigration and Visa Information
Canada.exe”: This is designed to target people that are applying to the Canada skill worker program. The
actor has used decoy documents from a Canada Immigration website (Figure 30 and Figure 31).


28
Figure 30: Decoy document
29
Figure 31: Decoy document
The actor has used several different icons for these executables. Among them we observed one that is an old
Malwarebytes icon possibly pretending to be our security software.
30
Figure 32: Used icons
This Bat to Exe Converter encrypts the batch loader into its resource section. The executable loads the resource,
decrypting its content and then executing the batch file.
Here is the main process of this loader:

It creates a directory in the %APPDATA%/Temp directory and then creates a batch file in that directory.
The name of the directory and batch files are generated randomly.

Figure 33: Create Directory

It looks for resources by their hashes and loads them using the LoadResource API call. This executable
contains 2 resources. One of them has been used to generate a key for the RC4 encryption algorithm. The
other one is the batch file content that has been encrypted.

31
Figure 34: Load Resource


It generates the RC4 key from the resource.


It decrypts the content of the other resource and writes it into that created batch file. (The encryption key
is 6A2148ADADF8D6E529B08D8BD0800A85).


It calls cmd.exe to execute the generated bat file using CreateProcessW.


Figure 35: RC4 decryption
32