5 Conclusion
Authored as the result of a three-month research session, we firmly believe that our
findings on the SilverFish group will light the way for various unanswered questions regarding
numerous high-profile APT cases dating back to early 2010s. First of all, we believe SilverFish
can be evaluated as a fundamental evidence for attributing SolarWinds incidents to multiple
groups with different motives.
Second, our research on the SilverFish is expected to act as a cornerstone for understanding
organized cyber-crime better by shifting the perception of APT groups from highly talented
security experts to highly-organized crime network.
Furthermore our findings on SilverFish demonstrate that security analysts should refrain from
fully-automatizing their threat intelligence protocols as all SilverFish infrastructures had
multiple simultaneous IOCs that had been previously attributed to different groups and
campaigns such as Trickbot, EvilCorp, SolarWinds, WastedLocker, DarkHydrus, and many
more. It is our opinion that acting strictly upon receiving IOC intelligence from third-party
resources may be one of the main reasons that prevent researchers from realizing the actual
scope of large-scale APT attacks.
As also explained on multiple occasions throughout the report, we presume that there
may be ongoing operations that feature the same tools, tactics, and procedures to target
different regions for different motives. Therefore, it’s our opinion that SilverFish will be setting
an important precedent for an extremely wide-scale covert cyber offense in terms of its
structure and operation.
Per the aforesaid, we believe SilverFish is the first group that has targeted EU states by using
the vulnerabilities which were tied to the SolarWinds incident. Furthermore, we evaluate our
research on the SilverFish group to be one of the first cases to have identified the objectives
of SolarWinds actors (as SilverFish is expected to be one of many) clearly by means of
technical findings. In this case, we assess this objective to be reconnaissance and covert
data exfiltration.
As the PTI team, we acknowledge the fact that our findings on SilverFish create as many
questions as it answers. Witnessing such a structured approach to covert cyber-espionage
reminds us that cyber-warfare will continue to be the most technical component of Fifth
Dimension Operations. Unfortunately despite their importance, budget, and resources, very
few organizations take information security as seriously as adversaries like the SilverFish
group.
This case demonstrates that current cyber crime operations are evolving significantly into a
much more complex phenomenon, requiring timely corporation among LE agencies, CERTs,
private sectors and communities. We have first-handedly experienced that, remedying
impact of such an attack with 4200+ targets is an extremely challenging task without
contribution and commitment of each party.
Finally, we would like to present our deepest gratitude to our advisors, partners, the national
CERT of Switzerland, and especially the cantonal police force of Vaud for their timely support
and dedication.
40 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
5.1 Attribution
Once a breach has been detected, a considerable amount of time and resources are
devoted to tracking, identifying, and laying blame on a potential culprit. We devote our efforts
to understanding future threats by analyzing current ones e.g., by attempting to ascertain
the level of sophistication of the attack, the motivation/purpose, how it was carried out, and
more. In all our interactions, we are guided by Swiss laws and regulations as well as basic
principles of sound business ethics and integrity.
Based on our initial analysis, the actor can be viewed as an entity possessing a high degree
of sophistication and who goes beyond the necessary technical skills needed to conduct
an operation of this magnitude. The actor demonstrates a comprehensive and up-to-date
knowledge of exploitation practices, security architecture/protocols, and anonymization
techniques. More importantly, their knowledge transcends regional/cultural and linguistic
barriers.
The bulk of the attacks were carried out between the hours of 12:00 and 16:00 UTC with
almost no activity between 20:00 and 08:00 UTC. From our point of view, this illustrates the
existence of an organization that operates in an organized and disciplined manner in a
hierarchical environment, one that is even highly compartmentalized.
A wide range of targets fell victim to these attacks from large corporations (e.g., in
hospitality/service, IT, and construction) to the education sector, manufacturing, and
government institutions. At this stage, we do not have a complete understanding of the clear
purpose of these attacks other than those of the group’s previous operations. This means
we have yet to receive information about data exfiltration or the utilization of ransomware.
Regardless, the attacker has clearly shown that they possess the motivation, willingness, and
capacity to plan and execute activities of this character and scale. Also, the attacker has
shown that they operate with enough flexibility and available resources to strike when the
opportunity arises.
41 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group