Present Day Targeting
BlackBerry’s analysis of BAHAMUT’s current targeting reveals that the group’s interests remain
concentrated around groups and individuals in the same areas of focus: South Asia and the
Persian Gulf.
Some of BAHAMUT’s current phishing infrastructure reflects a sustained interest in credential
harvesting from users of popular Western sites like Google [™], Microsoft [®], Yahoo! [®], and Telegram, no
matter where they might reside. BlackBerry additionally discovered targeting of users of Sina, QQ,
126, and 163, which are primarily used in China.
In the Middle East, BlackBerry observed phishing of government agencies, private businesses, and
individuals. The majority of the targeting, however, was aimed at government. In Saudi Arabia, that
included the targeting of seven different ministries and other agencies, with an added emphasis
on monetary and financial policy. BlackBerry observed targeting of other government ministries in
the Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Kuwait, this time with an emphasis on foreign policy and defense.
Of the private entities phished in the Emirates, one target stood out: an Emirati IT company named
in the July 2015 Wikileaks dump of more than one million emails purportedly belonging to the
commercial spyware vendor Hacking Team. Documents released by WikiLeaks portrayed the
company as a cutout between Hacking Team and the Emirati government. This relationship was
represented in documents and invoices involving the UAE Air Force, as seen here:
https://www.wikileaks.org/hackingteam/e-mails/e-mailid/605068
https://wikileaks.org/hackingteam/e-mails/e-mailid/616884
https://www.wikileaks.org/hackingteam/e-mails/e-mailid/568646
We observe that BAHAMUT’s targeting in the Middle East also takes a wider, more dragnet approach
in the form of mobile phone applications. A more thorough discussion of the fake applications,
many of which were available for download in the Emirates, can be found later in the section called
Tradecraft: Malicious Mobile Applications. It’s worth noting here that they appeared intended for
general audiences; the iOS [®] applications did not carry political overtones.
Conversely, BAHAMUT’s fake applications targeting South Asians were largely political in nature.
There was a common theme among them with the targeting of groups like Sikhs for Justice, and
Islamist groups active in the disputed Kashmir region, like Jamaat-ul-Islami and Jaish-e-Mohammad.
BAHAMUT’s South Asian phishing targets are focused on individuals of greater importance in private
industry, in contrast to the heavy government themed phishing in the Gulf. Indeed, BlackBerry did
not find any Indian government agencies or individuals among its current target sets.
12