CHINA
Activity attributed to
WICKED PANDA and
a possible CIRCUIT
PANDA operation
included supply
chain compromises,
demonstrating China’s
continued use of this
tactic to identify and
infect multiple victims.
Chinese adversary activity was steady throughout 2019, with a prominent focus on
the telecommunications sector. Healthcare entities were also included, providing
further evidence that Chinese targeted intrusions are enabling corporate espionage
of information vital to bolstering these key industries domestically. China also
continued to target the government and defense sectors of regional neighbors, with
a concentrated focus on Southeast Asia late in the year.
Both CrowdStrike Intelligence analysis and multiple public reports revealed malicious
cyber activity targeting minority populations, such as Tibetans and Uyghurs. China
also used computer network operations designed to impede the citizen protests
in Hong Kong that occurred in the latter half of 2019. The range of these activities
runs the gamut from use of iOS exploits and strategic web compromises (SWCs), to
distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks and influence operations.
The majority of observed activity has been attributed to adversaries that CrowdStrike
Intelligence has assessed to be supporting or working for China’s Ministry of State
Security (MSS). CrowdStrike identified numerous active WICKED PANDA infections
in the first half of the year, then additional new malware samples in Q3 and Q4 2019,
even after industry reporting detailed WICKED PANDA (aka APT 41) operations.
Activity attributed to WICKED PANDA and a possible CIRCUIT PANDA operation
included supply chain compromises, demonstrating China’s continued use of this
tactic to identify and infect multiple victims. Additional evidence has indicated that
some older named adversaries have reemerged; these include PIRATE PANDA and
STALKER PANDA, both of which were unobserved in 2018.
It is suspected that actors associated with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA)
remain active, although CrowdStrike Intelligence’s current visibility into their
targeting and TTPs is limited. LOTUS PANDA is associated with the PLA Strategic
Support Force (PLASSF) at low confidence, and the return of hibernating
adversaries like STALKER PANDA and PIRATE PANDA — neither of which have
been associated with MSS — may herald a resurgence of more PLA-aligned actors.
Several unnamed but suspected Chinese activities were identified, but due to the
use of publicly available toolsets, attribution remains undetermined. This activity
underscores how China’s use of open-source and LOTL TTPs continues to be a
highly effective means of inhibiting analysis and remediation efforts.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020