Malware use
During the third quarter, the PT ESC regularly recorded attacks by APT group TA505. The group's arse-
nal includes Dridex (a banking trojan), Cryptomix (ransomware signed with certificates issued to dummy
legal entities), ServHelper and FlawedAmmyy (remote administration trojans), and Upxxec (a plugin able
to detect and disable a large range of antivirus software). The attackers made active use of phishing to
send messages to organizations around the world related to finance, industry, government, science, and
transportation. Some of their campaigns are analyzed in more detail in individual sections of this report.
In Q3, our experts also detected new activity by Bronze Union (also known as LuckyMouse or APT27),
which uses ZxShell malware for remote access. The malware components had been digitally signed with
compromised certificates belonging to various companies. Once installed, ZxShell is difficult to detect
with normal antivirus techniques: the attackers place a special rootkit on infected systems to swap out
the installation paths to malware modules with the paths to legitimate utilities upon access.
Figure 8. ZxShell installer signed with a compromised certificate
The operators of the Sodinokibi ransomware, which we already covered in the second quarter, continue
to act aggressively. A breach of cloud provider PerCSoft resulted in encryption of data belonging to
the company's client base of approximately 400 dental clinics. In August, over 20 Texas communities
fell victim to this ransomware. The attackers constantly invent new methods for placing Sodinokibi on
victim computers.
8
In the third quarter, mining software fell to 3 percent of attacks on organizations and just 2 percent of
attacks on individuals. In our view, this is because attackers are gradually switching to malware with
multifunction capabilities. One example is the Clipsa trojan, which can stealthily mine cryptocurrency,
steal passwords, tamper with addresses of cryptocurrency wallets, and launch brute-force attacks
against WordPress sites.
2% 11% 34%
2%
35%
© Positive Technologies
Spyware
Adware
Banking trojans
RATs
Cryptolockers
Droppers
Multifunctional malware
Miners
Other
1%
3%
3%
6%
1%
5%
12%
9%
in attacks in attacks
on organizations on individuals
23%
26%
Figure 10. Malware distribution methods