Know the Adversary
14 http://blog.crowdstrike.com/
french-connection-french-aerospace
focused-cve-2014-0322-attack-shares
similarities-2012/
15 http://blog.crowdstrike.com/crowdstrike-discovers-use-64-bit-zero-dayprivilege-escalation-exploit-cve-20144113-hurricane-panda/
Since February 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence has observed
HURRICANE PANDA leverage at least two zero-day exploits, a
unique DNS resolution technique, and tools traditionally used by
Chinese actors. Once inside a victim’s network, this adversary
seeks to gain legitimate credentials to move laterally and establish
RDP sessions to achieve their objectives. Based on their technical
capabilities, HURRICANE PANDA is currently one of the most
advanced Chinese actors tracked by CrowdStrike.
Zero-days, Exploits, and Web Vulnerabilities
As stated above, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed HURRICANE
PANDA leveraging two zero-day exploits, indicating that this
adversary has above-average capability or access to exploit
developers. First, in February 2014 this actor was observed using
SWC tactics to gain initial footholds into victim networks via CVE
2014-0322. Successful exploitation during this campaign led victims
to install the Sakula malware. Much of the targeting in this campaign
appeared to be against the French aerospace sector. [14]
In October 2014, HURRICANE PANDA used CVE-2014-4113 to
escalate privileges on already-compromised 64-bit Windows
machines. [15] Their exploitation of this vulnerability marked the first
time it was observed in the wild.
In addition to zero-day exploits, HURRICANE PANDA has also used
three other privilege-escalation exploits and another remote code
execution exploit.
Finally, in another case, HURRICANE PANDA gained initial access
to a victim via a SQL injection vulnerability. They then used the
vulnerability to upload a simple Chopper webshell script to gain
additional access, move laterally to the corporate network, and
install additional RATs.
The RAT Pack
HURRICANE PANDA makes use of several Remote Access Tools
51