Forest Blizzard
Forest Blizzard (STRONTIUM) is a Russian military intelligence actor linked to GRU Unit
26165, who has targeted victims of both tactical and strategic interest to the Russian
government. Their activities span across a variety of sectors including defense,
transportation/logistics, government, energy, non-governmental organizations (NGO), and
information technology. Forest Blizzard has been extremely active in targeting
organizations in and related to Russia’s war in Ukraine throughout the duration of the
conflict, and Microsoft assesses that Forest Blizzard operations play a significant
supporting role to Russia’s foreign policy and military objectives both in Ukraine and in
the broader international community. Forest Blizzard overlaps with the threat actor
tracked by other researchers as APT28 and Fancy Bear.
Forest Blizzard’s use of LLMs has involved research into various satellite and radar
technologies that may pertain to conventional military operations in Ukraine, as well as
generic research aimed at supporting their cyber operations. Based on these
observations, we map and classify these TTPs using the following descriptions:
LLM-informed reconnaissance: Interacting with LLMs to understand satellite
communication protocols, radar imaging technologies, and specific technical
parameters. These queries suggest an attempt to acquire in-depth knowledge of
satellite capabilities.
LLM-enhanced scripting techniques: Seeking assistance in basic scripting tasks,
including file manipulation, data selection, regular expressions, and multiprocessing,
to potentially automate or optimize technical operations.
Similar to Salmon Typhoon’s LLM interactions, Microsoft observed engagement from
Forest Blizzard that were representative of an adversary exploring the use cases of a new
technology. As with other adversaries, all accounts and assets associated with Forest
Blizzard have been disabled.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/02/14/staying-ahead-of-threat-actors-in-the-age-of-ai/ 4/9
2/20/24, 2:27 PM Staying ahead of threat actors in the age of AI | Microsoft Security Blog