Conclusion
As the US and NATO reduce their troop levels in Afghanistan, China is posturing to fill the gap of
influence that the west is leaving behind. With plans to facilitate multilateral peace talks with the Taliban
and establish major transportation projects which aim to bolster the Afghan economy, Beijing has been
eyeing Afghanistan as part of its broader South Asian strategy.
By exploiting and co-opting Afghan network infrastructure that is used by multiple ministerial level
websites, Chinese intelligence services would be able to widely distribute malicious payloads to a variety of
global targets using Afghanistan’s government websites as a topical and trusted distribution platform,
exploiting a single hidden entry point. This being a variant of a typical “watering-hole” attack, the
attackers will most likely infect victims outside the Afghan government who happened to be browsing any
one of the CDN client systems, specifically, partner states involved in the planned troop reduction.
It is important to consider that corporate enterprises are not immune to this tactic, and this is not just a
technique that is used by APT threat actors. If an enterprise’s website leverages a CDN to speed up content
delivery, unintended consequences must be anticipated. Fortunately, modern browsers now implement a
security concept called “Content Security Policy”. As long as the server’s response headers are configured
properly, third party content may be restricted to originating from a narrow whitelist.
Just as attackers distribute malicious content to users en masse or CDN services distribute web content to
users, security professionals must be able to quickly distribute actionable Threat Intelligence in formats
readable by both humans and machines. ThreatConnect is the industry’s first comprehensive Threat
Intelligence Platform that enables enterprises to orchestrate the aggregation of Threat Intelligence from
multiple sources, use integrated analytics and a robust API that gives enterprises the control to action
their own Threat Intelligence, in the cloud and on premises. Register for a free account now to view the
Common Community shares and more.