Web and browser based attack vectors
The high number of incidents with malicious cryptomining in 2018 requires revisiting and complementing
what was described in last year ETL report about “compromising the web and browsers” attack vector.
With the first introduction of JavaScript cryptocurrency miners running directly from browsers, it was
quickly exploited by cyber-criminals. Since then, malicious cryptomining has been considered as a top
threat, added into the top 15 in this year’s ETL report. Cryptomining refers to a process in which, each
time a cryptocurrency transaction is made, a miner is responsible for ensuring the authenticity of
information and updating the blockchain digital ledger, in return of a financial reward. Basically, cybercriminals use their victims’ resources such as computing power, connectivity, and electrical power by
exploiting their web browser to perform mining operations. More information about cryptojacking can be
found in chapter 3.13.
A simple cryptokacking attack is illustrated below:
Figure 44: A cryptojacking attack
Example security incidents related to this attack vector:


Researchers discovered [636] a new Linux crypto-miner botnet dubbed PyCryptoMiner spreading over
SSH. The Monero miner botnet is based on Python and leverages Pastebin as command and control
server when the original C&C isn’t available. If all C&C servers of the botnet are not accessible, all
newly infected bots are idle, polling for the botmaster’s Pastebin page.


The Blackberry Mobile site was hacked exploiting a vulnerability of Magento. The attackers install a
Monero miner using the Coinhive library [637] .


636 http://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/67408/breaking-news/pycryptominer-botnet-miner.html, accessed
November 2018.
637 http://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/67503/hacking/blackberry-mobile-website-hacked.html, accessed November
2018.
ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018
ETL 2018 | 1.0 | External | January 2019

A report [638] published by the SANS Technology Institute reveals that attackers are exploiting a critical
Oracle WebLogic flaw (CVE 2017-10271) to inject Monero cryptocurrency miners on victim’s

machines.


A security researcher revealed the details of a RIG exploit campaign distributing malware coin miners
delivered via drive-by download attacks from malvertising, exploiting the RIG Exploit Kit [639] .


Researchers revealed the details of a new campaign distributing a malware dubbed RubyMiner,
turning outdated web servers into Monero miners [640] .


Researchers discovered [641] a newly malicious URL redirection campaign that infects users with the
XMRig Monero cryptocurrency miner. The campaign has already victimized users between 15 and 30


million times.
Related cyberthreats:
Malware, ransomware, web application attacks, phishing, data breaches and drive-by-download attacks.