Looking Forward
There has also been a significant amount of investment poured
into transportation projects, particularly high-speed rail (HSR)
lines, in multiple countries. China has already planned to merge its
two top train makers into a HSR juggernaut capable of building
massive rail lines around the world. To this end, China has submitted
bids for massive rail projects in Nigeria, and nearly won (this was
subsequently canceled) another project in Mexico. China has
also suggested massive lines between Beijing and Moscow and
constructing a line between Delhi and Chennai in India. Beijing also
remains interested in proposals for HSRs in Britain and California,
and has already made headway on construction of a Hungary
Serbian HSR that will connect Belgrade to Budapest.
In total, the projects proposed by China would give it control of
more than 40,000 km, giving it significant control over the world’s
transportation routes. It seems fairly likely that, given China’s
previous use of espionage against foreign companies (which it has
used to gain advantages in competitive bidding and mergers &
acquisitions), there is a substantial motivation for China to follow
suit in the coming year as it looks to secure its position as the global
leader in HSR construction.
Joint Plan of Action Could Possibly
Drive Iranian Cyber Attacks
The Iranian Joint Plan of Action (JPOA), its delay, and its ultimate
desired path by politicians to negotiate a Comprehensive Plan
of Action (CPOA) are preeminent issues in the global press and
political circles. The JPOA is a temporary agreement made between
Iran and an intergovernmental negotiating body consisting of China,
France, the Russian Federation, the Unßited Kingdom, the United
States and Germany. The agreement was originally intended to be
a six-month period in which the Iranian government would reduce
its stockpile of enriched uranium fuel and suspend specific aspects
of its nuclear energy programs in exchange for the UN Security
Council relaxing of specific sanctions previously imposed against
Iran. During this time of suspended nuclear research activities and
66