Win32/Industroyer: a new threat for industrial control systems
Win32/Industroyer is a sophisticated piece of malware designed to disrupt
the working processes of industrial control systems (ICS), specifically
industrial control systems used in electrical substations.
Those behind the Win32/Industroyer malware have a deep knowledge
and understanding of industrial control systems and, specifically, the
industrial protocols used in electric power systems. Moreover, it seems very
unlikely anyone could write and test such malware without access to the
specialized equipment used in the specific, targeted industrial environment.
Support for four different industrial control protocols, specified in the
standards listed below, has been implemented by the malware authors:


IEC 60870-5-101 (aka IEC 101)


IEC 60870-5-104 (aka IEC 104)


IEC 61850


OLE for Process Control Data Access (OPC DA)


In addition to all that, the malware authors also wrote a tool that
implements a denial-of-service (DoS) attack against a particular family of
protection relays, specifically the Siemens SIPROTEC range.
All this considered, the Win32/Industroyer malware authors show an
intensive focus that suggests they are highly specialized in industrial
control systems.
The capabilities of this malware are significant. When compared to the
toolset used by threat actors in the 2015 attacks against the Ukrainian
power grid which culminated in a black out on December 23, 2015
(BlackEnergy, KillDisk, and other components, including legitimate
remote access software) the gang behind Industroyer are more advanced,
since they went to great lengths to create malware capable of directly
controlling switches and circuit breakers. We have seen indications that
Win32/Industroyer 2
this malware could have been the tool used by attackers to cause the
power outage in Ukraine in December 2016, although at the time of
writing, it is not confirmed, and the investigation is still ongoing. The
infection vector remains unknown.
The malware contains multiple modules, as analyzed and described in the
next sections of this whitepaper. However, before diving into those details,
the following simplified schematic shows the connections between the
components of the malware.
Figure 1. Simplified schematic of Win32/Industroyer components.
While some components (e.g. Data wiper) are similar in concept to the 2015
BlackEnergy attacks against power grid companies in Ukraine, we don’t see
any link between those attacks and the code in this malware.