Taiwan’s 2020 Presidential Elections
Recorded Future observed a spike in references to “disinformation,”
“fake news,” and “influence operations” in the context of Taiwan
between October 2019 and January 2020. In the first half of
January alone, our analysts observed 1,223 references, compared
with the 775 references observed in December 2019, with peak
volume immediately following the Taiwanese presidential elections
on January 11, 2020, in which incumbent president Tsai Ing-wen
successfully won a second term.
Despite the conclusion of the 2020 Taiwanese election cycle and the
subsequent drop in references to disinformation campaigns and
fake news targeting Taiwan, Recorded Future assesses it is highly
likely that Chinese influence operations aimed at dividing Taiwanese
society and promoting pro-China narratives and political candidates
persist. Beijing has adopted this approach toward Taiwan since
President Tsai of Taiwan’s Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) [1] first
unseated the pro-China Kuomintang (KMT, the Chinese Nationalist
Party) in 2016.
However, it is important to note that different parties in Taiwan
also engage in online campaigns to sway public opinion to their
respective interests, some of which are aligned with Chinese
Communist Party (CCP) interests and employ similar TTPs. This
convergence in interests, policy goals, and TTPs occasionally
presents difficulties in distinguishing between Chinese (mainland)
interference activity and Taiwanese political activity. We distinguish
between the two types of activities to the best of our knowledge in
the following analysis.
1 The DPP is one of two major political parties in Taiwan, and has been traditionally
associated with promoting human rights, anti-communism, a distinct Taiwanese identity,
and Taiwan’s sovereignty.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 3
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Covert Influence
This section describes TTPs used by Chinese covert influence
operators to target Taiwanese users across Facebook, the popular
messaging app LINE, and YouTube. We also assess the role and
impact of Chinese content farms in the disinformation supply chain
targeting Taiwan, and highlight associated TTPs:
• Content Farms : Publishing fake news stories in English, AI
generated content, and China-friendly Taiwanese content
farms
• Facebook : Employment of PR firms for Facebook influence
operations, recruitment of Taiwanese influencers, and the use
of Chinese software for monitoring and batch posting
• LINE : Use of Chinese software for monitoring and batch
posting
• YouTube : Use of Chinese influencers to shape narratives on
Taiwanese affairs, and the recruitment of Taiwanese YouTube
influencers
Content Farms
Chinese and Taiwanese content farms [2] have become one of the
biggest sources for misleading, intentionally biased, and false
content in Taiwan. According to the database of Taiwanese
fact-checking website MyGoPen (which translates to “don’t lie”
in Taiwanese), at least 60% of false or misleading information
forwarded to the site are from foreign sources, the majority of
which are from mainland China. Oftentimes, Taiwanese content
farms also source content from Chinese sources, including Chinese
content farms, Weibo posts, WeChat posts, and Chinese state media
or state-affiliated platforms.
2 We make a distinction between Chinese-originated and Taiwanese-originated content
farms. Either may propagate material in simplified or traditional Chinese, or in any
number of dialects, so the key factor in our determination is who the owners and/or
operators are.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 4
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Aside from common tactics to generate internet traffic from
Taiwanese users, such as crafting sensational titles for news articles
copied from local news outlets, Taiwanese researcher Puma Shen
has observed an evolution of tactics, with Chinese operators
creating English-language content farms. In these content farms,
English articles are first translated to written simplified Chinese and
then to traditional Chinese (the official written characters of Hong
Kong and Taiwan, rather than the simplified Chinese characters
used by mainland Chinese) before being disseminated to Taiwanese
users. We believe this evolution is likely for the purpose of deceiving
the growing pool of Taiwanese internet users who have learned to
verify news sources.
While we have not observed instances of content from Englishlanguage content farms being disseminated to Western audiences,
we assess that such infrastructure and English-language content
creation capabilities could be leveraged to target Western audiences.
Another emerging tactic used by both Chinese and Taiwanese content
farms is the use of AI to generate massive volumes of content. In a May
2019 report on how to combat disinformation, Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs
Council — the agency responsible for China policy — speculated that
China had been using AI technology in influence operations targeting
Taiwan. This speculation was corroborated by Taiwanese online
marketer and renowned public opinion manipulator Peng Kuan Chin (彭
冠今). Peng created a “Content Farm Automatic Collection System” that
crawls the internet for Chinese articles and posts and reorganizes the
words and sentences into new text, generating thousands of articles
per day. Peng’s software is modeled on automation software he saw
in China, which he believes no one else outside the mainland has.
Additionally, while Recorded Future has not observed evidence of
Chinese manipulation of Taiwanese content farms, we assess that
operators of popular Taiwanese content farms are likely to be seen
as valuable assets for Chinese influence operations. One example is
Lin Cheng Kuo (林正國), the owner and active contributor to one of
Taiwan’s most popular content farms, Mission (密訊). [3] Mission is one of
the most shared sources on Facebook Taiwan (zh-tw.facebook[.]com),
at times surpassing major local news outlets. Investigative news outlet
3 The original Mission domain was mission-tw[.]com, but it has frequently changed
domains to circumvent Facebook filters since being tagged as a content farm and banned
from Facebook’s News Feed in October 2019.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 5
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
The Reporter recently revealed that Lin Cheng Kuo is an active member
of Taiwan’s New Party, which supports unification with Mainland China.
Additionally, he has been photographed attending events held by
China’s provincial-level state-owned news station Hai Xia Dao Bao (
海峡导报), alongside Chinese media personalities. We assess that,
because popular Taiwanese content farms are so vital to spreading
information to the Taiwanese public, owners and operators are likely
to be seen as potential assets for Chinese influence operators.
Facebook
Social media penetration in Taiwan is the highest in Asia, with 89%
of the population using social media at least once per day. Facebook
is one of the most popular social media outlets in Taiwan, with 89%
of Taiwanese internet users reported to use the platform. Facebook
has become a prime target for Chinese influence operations in
Taiwan, probably because of its wide reach and product stickiness.
According to Taiwanese researcher Puma Shen, many content farms
have relied on Facebook “fan” pages to spread disinformation.
However, many of these pages were banned or deleted in 2019, so
content farmers have resorted to employing freelance individuals
in Malaysia, or other overseas Chinese nationals, to disseminate the
content farm’s misleading content across Facebook. We assess that
this trend toward employing more covert means of disseminating
disinformation via local third parties on Facebook will accelerate as
Facebook tightens enforcement of its content policies.
In the first half of 2019, multiple owners of popular Taiwanese
Facebook fan pages disclosed screenshots of strangers attempting
to purchase their fan pages. While speculation is rife on social
and traditional media that the purchasers are mainland Chinese
citizens, these attempts have not been directly attributed to Chinese
nationals. However, according to the testimony of the owner of a
Taiwanese online marketing firm that specializes in PTT [4] influence
campaigns, other marketing firms in the industry are conducting
Facebook influence campaigns on behalf of the CCP, mostly through
disseminating images and short commentaries criticizing the
current administration.
4 PTT is the largest terminal-based bulletin board system (BBS) based in Taiwan.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 6
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Additionally, we have identified Chinese provincial governments
recruiting “mainland-friendly, pro-unification” Taiwanese
influencers through Facebook posts, with the aim of “training a
group of Taiwanese influencers with distinct political affiliations.”
The listings are often posted on behalf of the Chinese government
agencies by Taiwanese locals, with one listing offering a base salary
of ¥5,000 to ¥10,000 RMB (approximately $730 to $1,460 USD).
Facebook post recruiting Taiwanese influencers for the Sichuan government. (Source: HK01)
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 7
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
LINE
LINE is the most popular messaging app in Taiwan, with 21 million
users (about 90% of Taiwan’s population). According to research
revealed by LINE in October 2019, Taiwanese users are unique in
their love of using the “share” feature, which allows users to forward
text, image, or video messages to other users and message groups
within LINE. The share feature is used approximately a hundred
million times per month by Taiwanese users, which is 40% of the
total “shares” globally. This feature operates similarly to the “share”
feature in WhatsApp, which is widely used by Indian nationals
and has facilitated the mass dissemination of disinformation in
India. We assess that the speed and breadth of sharing on LINE
may render Taiwanese users particularly susceptible to Chinese
influence operations.
Chinese operators may also benefit from social media management
technologies, including a Chinese-developed software called “Cross-
Border Cloud/Mass Management System” (跨境云/群控系统), which
allows users to batch manage thousands of social media accounts
at once (including Facebook, Instagram, WeChat, WhatsApp, LINE,
QQ, and TikTok). The software allows users to breach the Great
Firewall, change their IP addresses, batch create and translate
posts (including converting written simplified Chinese content to
traditional Chinese), batch manage groups, batch “like” and “share”
posts, and more.
At this time, links between this software and mainland Chinese
influence operations targeting Taiwan remain speculative and
unsubstantiated; however, we believe that these technologies are
likely currently being employed. That is because these technologies
can ease the spread of weaponized content at scale, especially on
closed messaging platforms such as LINE, where Taiwanese users
frequently reshare content.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 8
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Screenshot of the cross-border cloud/mass management system UI for WhatsApp. (Source: Facebook)
YouTube
YouTube is also one of the most popular social media platforms in
Taiwan, with 90% of Taiwanese internet users using the platform
and 70% of those users visiting every day.
Researchers have observed that Chinese influence activity on
YouTube has increased in 2019. 10 YouTube channels were created
between August and October 2019 that all focused on attacking
the administration of President Tsai Ing-wen. These researchers
believe that some of the channels, which have more than 10,000
subscribers, are likely content farms run by Chinese nationals.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 9
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
One example is the YouTube channel “Xida speaks on Taiwan at the
foot of Yushan” (Yushan is the tallest mountain in Taiwan), which
features China National Radio journalist and show host Zhang Xida
(张希达). On the channel, Zhang attempts to speak Mandarin with
a Taiwanese accent and comments on Taiwanese politics, mostly
attacking the country’s ruling DPP administration. China National
Radio is the national radio station of China, and is under the purview
of the Central Publicity Department of the CCP and the State Council
of the People’s Republic of China. The videos on the channel feature
subtitles and graphics in traditional Chinese characters, which we
assess is because the channel is highly likely to be targeting a
Taiwanese audience. 15 videos were posted between August 23
and October 18, 2019, although the channel itself was created on
August 3, 2014. At the time of this writing, the channel had 638,000
subscribers.
Xida’s video titled “U.S. Interference of Taiwanese Elections — TAIPEI Act.” (Source: YouTube)
Influence operations researcher Puma Shen has also observed
advertisements listed by organizations affiliated with the United
Front Work Department of the CCP (the agency responsible for
coordinating influence operations to neutralize opposition to the
CCP) recruiting Taiwanese YouTube influencers.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 10
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
While none of these observed activities have been attributed directly
to the CCP, Recorded Future assesses that we will see more Chinese
and Taiwanese channels on YouTube promoting issues and political
stances that are in the Chinese national interest in the few years
leading up to the next Taiwanese presidential election.
Overt Influence
Between October 1, 2019 and January 22, 2020, Recorded Future
observed 801 references to Taiwan, “Tsai Ing-wen,” and “Han Kuoyu” (the KMT presidential candidate) from the social media accounts
of Chinese state-owned and state-affiliated media. Consistent with
the roles of state media as mouthpieces of the CCP, messaging from
these accounts falls into several major themes that are aligned with
China’s overall “carrot and stick” strategy towards Taiwan: criticism
of the DPP administration and their policies, threats to deter
Taiwanese independence or any deviation from the “One China”
policy, and promotion of economic and cultural opportunities that
come with closer cross-strait ties.
In terms of emerging trends in overt influence by state media, we
believe that two factors will be key in the coming years: first, the
increased targeting of the younger generation of Taiwanese internet
users, and second, the state media’s leveraging and amplification
of false or biased content from social media and content farms.
Increased Targeting of Taiwanese Youth
Recorded Future observed a steady rise of references to Taiwanese
“youth” and “young people” from the same set of accounts over the
past five years, with a spike in references in the past year, peaking
right before the January 2020 Taiwan elections. Most references
centered around career opportunities and testimonies offered by
young Taiwanese that have found success in mainland China.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 11
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Immediately following the January 2020 re-election of President
Tsai, PRC state media Xinhua News Agency published a statement
on social media made by Taiwan Affairs Office spokesperson Ma
Xiaoguang, stating that “[...] young people on both sides of the
strait should communicate more and more. We will never give up
on the Taiwanese young people. We will continue to introduce a
series of policies through continuous exchanges. The measures
will create conditions for cross-strait youth to increase mutual
understanding, improve the correct understanding of cross-strait
relations, and promote a more objective and correct understanding
of the mainland.”
While these posts account for a small subset of the posts mentioning
Taiwan, we assess that this may indicate that the Chinese state has
realized the deciding role that the younger generation of Taiwanese
voters is increasingly playing in public opinion and elections.
References to Taiwan’s “youth” or “young people” by Chinese state-affiliated Twitter accounts. (Source: Recorded
Future)
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 12
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Leveraging and Amplifying Social Media and Content Farms
Not only do both Taiwanese and Chinese content farms copy
content originating from Chinese state media, but investigations
have also shown that state media reference and amplify fake or
biased content that originates from social media and content farms.
Examples include the 2018 Banana Crisis, during which Xinhua News
referenced “Taiwanese public opinion,” saying that “deteriorating
relations with mainland China brought on by the current
administration” was one of the main drivers of plunging banana
prices. The Xinhua article was further shared by Chinese content
farms including KKNews. Investigative news outlet The Reporter
later discovered that the false information had originated from the
Taiwanese content farm Mission and morphed as it was shared and
copied between anti-DPP Facebook groups and different content
farms. A false news story smearing President Tsai published by the
Global Times had followed a similar creation and dissemination
process and been shared by numerous content farms.