1.3 Overall timeline
Due to the number of analyzed incidents, HvS had the chance to compare the timelines and to draw
conclusions. The results are shown in Figure 1, which contains the timelines of four different incidents.
Please note, that the exact dates are shifted a bit to guarantee anonymity, nevertheless the flow of actions
remains unchanged.
Between July 2019 and March 2020 there were only a few publications by security researchers about
detected activities and new indicators from Lazarus, which now can be translated in “the calm before the
storm”. Apparently, the group was busy in preparing a new campaign.
Figure 1: High level timeline of incidents #1 to #4
February 2020
Interviews with various patient zero users of the incidents revealed that they all became victims of social
engineering attacks. All of them were contacted via LinkedIn in the second half of February 2020. Only one
victim in Asia directly received a malicious document. Although that client was compromised early,
attackers did not use the C2 channel immediately. In all other cases the attackers started individual
conversations with the victims to build up confidence and trust. They later abused this trust to persuade
victims into executing malicious documents on their system.
May 2020
For incident #2, there is only a rough timeline available, but the actor had been active in May and was
contained end of May.
Within three days at the end of May, attackers delivered malicious documents and thus compromised the
victim’s devices of incidents #3 and #4. Further, they started to actively use the C2 channel in incident #1.
As in incident #1, they waited to use the C2 channel of incident #4.
© 2020 HvS-Consulting AG TLP-White page 3 of 27
June 2020
In incident #3 attackers used the established access immediately for internal reconnaissance and shortly
after for lateral movement to gain a better foothold. Subsequently, they searched for interesting
information within the network and performed further lateral movement, until the incident was successfully
contained end of June.
July 2020
Only three days after containment of incident #3 - which even included a weekend - the attackers started
internal reconnaissance and lateral movement in incident #4.
For some reason, the C2 channel used in incident #4 broke in the beginning of July and the actor lost
access. Thus, they started over with social engineering against a victim on another continent and regained
access to the network in mid of July. This quick execution of a “Plan B” shows that the attackers have been
well prepared and did their research about the target organizations and selection of victims early in 2020.
Incident #1 was kind of special. Apparently, it was harder to gain foothold in incident #1 due to the more
restrictive network design. Hence, multiple lateral movement attempts from patient zero in Asia towards
Europe were successfully contained by the victim, until patient zero was identified end of July.
August 2020
After regaining access on another continent, the attackers also re-accessed previously compromised
systems from incident #4. Then they started internal reconnaissance, clearly intensified lateral movement,
and searched for interesting information, until in mid of August incident #4 was also successfully contained.
September to October 2020
During that containment, one compromised client was isolated and kept running to monitor further
activities. We discovered that the attackers verified the C2 connectivity monthly and renewed parts of the
malware.
November 2020
In November 2020, the attackers compromised a European subsidiary of the victim of incident #1 and
started lateral movement again.
Interestingly we made the same observation as in
incident #4, that the TTPs have changed after reinfection .
To achieve better persistence local accounts were
created as described in 2.2 and for lateral movement
instead of Windows Management Instrumentation.
Windows Services were used as shown in 2.7. While in
the first stage the compromise of systems was limited,
after reinfection a clearly higher number of systems were
compromised.
Nevertheless, in both incidents, the attackers accessed
previously compromised systems after their successful
reinfection and reused already compromised accounts.
Figure 2: Recent spearphishing mail with link to malicious
document with changed names
During the time of writing, spearphishing mails with job opportunities were still distributed to employees
of the victims, like shown in Figure 2.
© 2020 HvS-Consulting AG TLP-White page 4 of 27