Work method
The goal of our work is to boost interest on this topic and help other researchers to work on
the results. This means, we are unable to check those thousands of traces that the 45 IoCs of
the original leaks produces. We tried to make one step after the initial information and share
by this document to initiate research to widen results.
6

For some known APT attacks, the findings can extend knowledge, e.g. by adding new

known kernel driver names to Stuxnet attacks

For some, only very little information was available publicly yet, but based on the IoCs

malware samples, more could be uncovered and public knowledge about these could
be extended, although it is very unlikely that information about the victims will be
uncovered

For some attacks, additional IoCs can start up uncovering the attack, as before of that

traces were unavailable and hence APT research finished up in very short reports
stating “XY used this attack as targeted attack, from now on we refer to this under the
name of W” like reports.

On some IoCs, we never had public knowledge about the classification of a targeted

(APT) attack. Based on the current results, some attacks, samples, or even hundreds
of samples will get to be identified as part of some APT attacks that were previously
unknown or partially unknown.
Initially we tried to collect information from traditional open-source OPSEC sources, like
google search. We also tried to collect information by Yara rules applied to our malware
repository, which consists of at least 150 TB of known malicious binaries.
Of course, information from one source is a basis to find more information bases on the results
of the previous; hence we continued to track traces. However, the set of information is just
too wide so we definitely don’t clam the “extensive research” or “full research” tag, our part
of the story is to make “initial research”.
In the rest of the document, we mainly publish links, short information strips, and hashes. This
all means, we publish possibly next steps, reasoning on the origin of the attack, and all kind of
additional information that can help others to go forward. We don’t think we can or could
have made the best document based of the available facts, so we appreciate if anybody would
work on this and extend the common knowledge by their results.
Hence, we are happy to help others to publish their extensions on our work.
The current document plans to share information to professionals. Hence, in addition to the
public information (in multiple types), hashes of samples are included in the results. The
hashes might be partially usable, we do not have a clear vision if the samples found are really
connected to the attacks.
The tools
The tools related to “Territorial Dispute” and other APT related information can be found in
the following files and directories of the Shadow Brokers leak:
7
The *windows\Resources\TeDi\PyScripts* contains multiple files. Three of them are utility
scripts, while the most interesting python program is sigs.py, which contains very simple
‘signatures’ (named SIG1-SIG45), which link to known and unknown APT campaigns from the
recent years. The individual subroutines in this file are find_01 to find_45.
For example, find_08 relates to the Stuxnet attack, as demonstration, the subroutine is very
simple and short:
A piece of code resolves the abbreviation, ‘TeDi’ to Territorial Dispute:
tedilog = getLogger('TERRITORIALDISPUTE')
windows/Resources/TeDi/PyScripts/utils.py#9
In addition to the TeDi scanners, some other files also contain important information related
to targeted attacks.
8
Another directory windows\Resources\Ep\Scripts\malfind contains individual tools for
scanning for signs of APT attacks and extracting information:
9
For example, we identified that SIG25 is most likely the APT attack known as “Dark Hotel”. The
related scanning tool is a very simple script:
As we can see, this script looks for the existence of an actual file “winver32.exe” in the very
specific $docsandsettings\$subkey\Application Data\winver32.exe path. Interestingly,
using google search to find connection between winver32.exe and Dark Hotel does not
currently show up any information about the connection, so this link might be a new finding
based on the leaked information.
The related “get” information gathering scripts are also interesting. For example, related to
Stuxnet (SIG8) the script contains the following file names:
10
If one of the files found on the target, the operator might decide to get a copy of the file. (Note
the “DropboxAPI” call, most likely this is the channel for the file transfer). Related code:
11
Another tool for scanning uses an external file with definitions to find related SIGs:
windows/Resources/Ep/Scripts/ifthen/gwdef_other_peeps.txt contains mostly the same
detection rules but in a different format. A sample screen on the tool:
The file DriverList.db (windows\Resources\Ops\Databases\DriverList.db), contains a list of
drivers related to APT attacks and also a list of Antivirus product drivers, hardware drivers and
some interesting ones, e.g.: information on U.S./NSA related attack tools with
remarks/commands for operators. A similar file in text format can also be found at
windows\Resources\Ops\Data\drv_list.txt and a copy of it at
windows\Resources\Ep\drv_list.txt.
The driver list most likely contains known windows kernel drivers, and remarks reveal the
connection with some APT attacks. For example, it seems that “biosfix” and “bitcheck” might
be related to SIG25 APT attack. From the indicators, we think SIG25 is the APT attack known
as “Dark Hotel”.
There are remarks for own tools:
"mscnsp"," FORMALRITE/UNITEDRAKE "
12
"mscoreep"," FOGGYBOTTOM/UNITEDRAKE "
and other interesting remarks:
"msfcvr32"," DANGEROUS MALWARE - SEEK HELP ASAP "
"msrsfler"," UNKNOWN - PLEASE PULL BACK "
"wmiapvrr", " FRIENDLY TOOL - SEEK HELP ASAP "
"bsdnfs", " SEEK HELP IMMEDIATELY "
More similar remarks can be found in the end of this document.
13