N. KOREA
disguised as human resources recruiters to contact targets. Following initial contact,
the adversary attempts to move the conversation to an encrypted communications
channel, such as WhatsApp or Telegram, where it sends a malicious document —
often disguised as a job description for a lucrative opportunity — that will retrieve
additional payloads. To make personas appear legitimate and to directly interact
with targets without raising suspicion, this tactic requires significant research and
preparation, highlighting the level of effort LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA makes in order
to successfully infiltrate an organization.
Shift in Currency Generation Strategy
DPRK adversaries have conducted cyber-enabled theft since at least 2015 to evade
international and U.S. economic sanctions and generate a stream of funding to
support other state initiatives. In 2020, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed VELVET
CHOLLIMA, LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA and STARDUST CHOLLIMA continue to
engage in currency generation operations (Table 8).
|ActorLABYRINTHCHOLLIMA|Currency Generation TTPsDeployment of malicious cryptocurrency applicationsCard skimmingRansomwareLikely data extortion|
|---|---|
|STARDUSTCHOLLIMA|Deployment of malicious cryptocurrency application  Suspected targeting of cryptocurrency exchanges|
|VELVETCHOLLIMA|Targeting of cryptocurrency exchanges  Attempted credential theft of cryptocurrency wallets with maliciousAndroid application|
Table 8. Currency Generation Activity Seen From DPRK Adversaries in 2020
STARDUST CHOLLIMA has historically been the most aggressive DPRK adversary
in currency generation operations, targeting key elements of the global financial
ecosystem such as the SWIFT international money wiring protocol, ATM networks,
and payment processors, racking up large payouts in the tens of millions of U.S.
dollars. In 2020, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed STARDUST CHOLLIMA appear to
shift from operations targeting large financial institution intrusions and move toward
cryptocurrency exchanges. This trend runs parallel to VELVET CHOLLIMA and
LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA operations, which have similarly targeted cryptocurrency
exchanges and have increasingly relied on eCrime tactics such as JavaScript card
skimming, cryptocurrency wallet credential theft, and deployment of ransomware.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 46