ATTRIBUTION
Malware attribution has always been a difficult task and Volatile Cedar is no different. Although we have no hard evidence upon which
to base our conclusions, and many of the factors we rely on can in theory be forged or misinterpreted, we believe the unique combination
of these factors reveal the attacker’s agenda and provide a good estimation of his whereabouts.
1 . To assign a rough geographical location, we observed the UTC creation times of detected samples. The results can be seen in the
following table:
Figure 2 - Explosive sample UTC compilation hours
With conventional working hours usually between 08:00-17:00, the creation locale time can be comfortably correlated to GMT+2.
2 . To further align our results, we took into account several other factors collected from the C&C server infrastructure:

The C&C servers for the first Explosive version were hosted at a major Lebanese hosting company. This is not commonly seen in

the malware arena.

DNS registrant information from several of the infrastructure servers shows that they are or were previously registered under

contacts with a very similar Lebanese address.

Careful observation of DNS registrant contact information history has revealed an OPSEC failure by the attackers in one instance.

For a brief period (possibly before the server was operational), WHOIS privacy was inactive, pointing at a real identity of the regis­
trant. This e-mail address leads to social media accounts that show public and clear affinity with Lebanese political activism.
While not all of the targets have been identified yet, we can start building a profile of the intended victims. Some of the confirmed tar­
gets can be associated with organizations related to the state of Israel, and some are Lebanon-based, potentially testifying to in-state
espionage among rival political groups.
Other factors to consider are the low infection rate and the targeted nature of this campaign. These suggest that the attacker’s
motives are not financial but aim to extract sensitive information from the targets.The combination of these factors leads us to
believe that the attack originated or is sponsored by groups affiliated with Lebanon and the specific targets are chosen based on
nation-state/political-group interests.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  6