01 KEY FINDINGS
Unique tools
and C&C infrastructure
Through analysis of Lazarus activity, Group-IB gained deep insight on a
complex botnet infrastructure built by the hacker group to conduct their
attacks. To mask malicious activity, the hackers used a three-layer architecture
of compromised servers with SSL encrypted channels established between
them. In addition to encrypted traffic, data sent through SSL channel was
additionally encrypted. The attackers achieved anonymity by employing a
legitimate VPN client - SoftEther VPN. In some cases, they also used corporate
web servers that were part of the attacked infrastructure.
To control infected machines, the hackers employed multi-module tools,
attempting to complicate malware analysis. That said, they managed to
conduct several successful attacks without employing 0day exploits. Lazarus
demonstrated a flexible approach to attacks by applying different hacking tools,
which prevented their detection by endpoint security solutions.
Links to
North Korea
According to our investigation of the Lazarus infrastructure, the threat actors
connected to the end C&C layer (Layer3) from two North Korean IP addresses
210.52.109.22 and 175.45.178.222. The second IP-address relates to Potonggang
District, perhaps coincidentally, where National Defence Commission is
located — the highest military body in North Korea
Additional evidence was confirmed that Lazarus links to North Korean hackers
by Group-IB specialists through analysis of pubic sources. We found a news
report from a South Korean Arirang TV agency, dated 2016, about an attack on
South Korean television stations and banks as part of DarkSeoul operation. This
attack performed by North Korean hackers and was investigated by the South
Korea’s National Police Agency, who detected two IP addresses 175.45.178.19 and
175.45.178.97, used by hackers to control malware. Both IP addresses are in the
same block of IP addresses the IP 175.45.178.222, which was discovered by
Group-IB specialists.
Lazarus is purportedly controlled by Bureau 121, a division of the
Reconnaissance General Bureau, a North Korean intelligence agency.
Bureau 121 is responsible for conducting military cyber campaigns.