rtniczw.sys
While analyzing a user incident involving Duqu, we discovered something new - something that could,
potentially, affect the whole Stuxnet story as we know it.
A strange file was discovered on the victim's computer, which was detected by our antivirus engine as
Rootkit.Win32.Stuxnet.a. This verdict was supposed to correspond to the known file mrxcls.sys described
above, but the detected file's name and checksum were different!
The file was rtniczw.sys, 26,872 bytes in size, MD5 546C4BBEBF02A1604EB2CAAAD4974DE0.
The file was a little larger than mrxcls.sys, which had a Realtek digital signature. This implied that
rtniczw.sys also had a digital signature. We managed to get a copy of the file, and we were amazed to find
that it used the same Realtek certificate, but with a different file signing date from mrxcls.sys: rtniczw.sys
was signed on 18 March 2010, while the mrxcls driver had been signed on 25 January of the same year.
In addition, rtniczw.sys used a registry key and configuration data block that was not used in Stuxnet.
Stuxnet used the key "MRxCls" and the value "Data", while in the case of rtniczw.sys, the key was
"rtniczw" and the value was "Config".
Detailed analysis of the code found in rtniczw.sys identified no other differences from the 'reference'
driver: this was the same mrxcls.sys file, created in the same year, on the same day and hour - on 1
January 2009.
We searched for additional information about other users who had the same file, but were unable to find
anything! Moreover, we could find no information at all about the file's name (rtniczw.sys) or its MD5 in
any search engine. The file had been identified only once: it had been sent for scanning to VirusTotal from
China in May 2011.
Apparently, the system that we were studying had been infected in late August 2011. It should be noted
that we did not find a Stuxnet infection on the system: no additional files from the Stuxnet kit had been
found. However, we did find Duqu files.
We came to the conclusion that there could be other driver files similar to the "reference" file mrxcls.sys,
which are not among known variants of Stuxnet.