Attack analysis
The file that Susan received and opened looked like this.
It actually was an executable file that used the icon typically used by Adobe Acrobat Reader documents
to trick users.
The figure below illustrates the execution flow:
unzip.exe
bar.zip
The file is just a self-extracting file. Once run, it creates a folder and extracts six files into it. It then runs
one of them –stat.vbs– and does not take any more actions.
There is no malicious activity, so the file goes unnoticed by behavior-based detectors. The stat.vbs file
simply runs another file –deca.bat– in the background.
This file in turn opens the pic.pdf file (the blank PDF document that opened on Susan’s computer) and runs
a file called dcp.exe, a free tool to encrypt files.
This utility is used to decrypt the following two files:
Next, it uses the unzip.exe program to extract the content of the bare.zip file (12 files) into a different
folder. Then, it runs one of the files: sai.vbs.
pandasecurity.com
pandalabs
None of these actions are anomalous, and actually are very different from what we normally see in other
types of attacks. Here is where the second part of the attack begins:
The .vbs file runs a .bat file that modifies the Windows registry to ensure that a file called aagi.bat is run
every time the system starts. Then, it makes a copy of the four files with the extension .abc, and changes
their extension to .exe. These are all legitimate applications that anybody could use: the first three are
designed to collect the credentials (user names and passwords) stored in the local mail client and Internet
browser, and save them to a text file.
The fourth one is an application designed to run another application every ‘x’ seconds. This is very useful
for computers that need to run an application at all times, like a browser or any other specific software, so
that if the application closes unexpectedly for some reason it will open again. In this case the application
is configured to run another .bat file every 3,600 seconds (every hour).
Then, the ici.bat file uses the ATTRIB system command to hide the two folders it created, disables the
Windows firewall, and renames the text files containing the credentials to PIC_%d_%t, where %d is the
current date and %t the current time. This is done to indicate when the information they contain was
obtained.
Finally, it uses the FTP command to upload those files to an external FTP server controlled by the
attackers.
pandasecurity.com
pandalabs
Additionally, it runs the file iei.bat every hour, which basically takes the following actions:
iewi.bat
0x01209900 (???)
0x00000004 (4)
0x00020000 (131072)
image.exe
images.exe
picture viewer.exe
PIC_%d_%t
It renames the .abc files back to .exe, in case they were deleted. It then deletes all the text files with
credentials that were already uploaded to the FTP server, restores the Windows registry key in case it was
deleted, runs the applications designed to collect credentials, renames the resulting files and uploads
them to the FTP server.
As you can see, no malware is ever used in the attack, the hack makes use of legitimate tools and
different scripts to perform the aforementioned actions.
But, is this type of attack really effective? As mentioned before, no antivirus was capable of detecting
it. Furthermore, its peculiarities seem to indicate that the proactive protection layers included in most
antivirus solutions would not be able to detect its apparently harmless behavior.
This was confirmed when we accessed the FTP server that the stolen data was sent to, and found that
the oldest files dated back to August 2013. That is, the attack had been underway for almost six months
completely undetected.
pandasecurity.com