RatankbaPOS Analysis
RatankbaPOS is deployed through a process injection dropper that is also capable of installing itself persistently, checking
a C&C for either an update or a command to delete itself, dropping the RatankbaPOS implant to disk, and finally searching
for the targeted POS process and module for injection and ultimately the theft of POS data.
The dropper first sets up persistence by creating a registry key in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows_
_CurrentVersion\Run\igfxgpttray . It uses its own module file name for the registry key value. Next, it makes an HTTP request
to a hardcoded URL hxxp://www[.]webkingston[.]com/update.jsp?action=need_update using a hardcoded User-Agent
(UA) of “Nimo Software HTTP Retriever 1.0” (Fig. 41) to request either instruction from the C&C to delete itself and remove
the persistence registry key or to download an updated implant with which to replace itself. If no response is returned from
the C&C, RatankbaPOS will begin the process injection search.
Figure 41: RatankbaPOS dropper requesting and receiving update from C&C
1 We acknowledge the excellent work from @ashley_shen_920, @051R15, and @kjkwak12 with their documentation of North Korean-related attacks on VANXATM
which was targeting ATM devices and not directly POS.
North Korea Bitten by Bitcoin Bug 23
The process injection search begins by taking a snapshot of the process list using CreateToolhelp32Snapshot. The implant
dropper/injector will then case-insensitive search for a process named xplatform.exe which we assess is likely associated
with Tobesoft’s XPLATFORM UI/UX design software. If a process name match is found then a TH32CS_SNAPMODULE
CreateToolhelp32Snapshot call is used to make a snapshot of xplatform.exe’s running module list. Loaded modules
are then iterated using Module32First and Module32Next while converting each result to lowercase by adding 0x20 to
any uppercase letters and then finally comparing the string to ksnetadsl.dll (Fig. 42) that we assess is associated with
a KSNET POS framework . Finally, the filesize of ksnetadsl.dll is checked to make sure it is 98,304 bytes (Fig. 42). If a
successful match is found then the process ID (PID) of xplatform.exe is returned. Lastly, RatankbaPOS will be written to
disk as c:\windows\temp\hkp.dll and the PID of xplatform.exe process will be used to inject hkp.dll into xplatform.exe using
LoadLibraryA and CreateRemoteThread (Fig. 43).
Figure 42: Dropper/injector searching for ksnetadsl.dll and correct filesize
North Korea Bitten by Bitcoin Bug 24
Figure 43: Injecting RatankbaPOS into xplatform.exe
RatankbaPOS will first hook the KSNETADSL.dll module at offset 0xB146 (Fig. 44). Interestingly there is code for
RatankbaPOS to check KSNETADSL.dll for an exported function named 1000B146, which seems like an unusual export
name for which to check, but this code will never be used because ‘!strcmp(“1000B146”, “1000B146”)’ will always be true.
We hypothesize that this feature was included either by mistake or was previously used for debugging. RatankbaPOS will
also log messages to a file stored in c:\windows\temp\log.tmp.
Figure 44: RatankbaPOS
setting KSNETADSL.dll
injection offset
At this point in the reverse
engineering process, we
would naturally begin
reversing the KSNETADSL.
dll module; however, we
have only been able to find
two such modules with a
filesize of 98,304 bytes:


f2f6b4770718eed349fb7c77429938ac1deae7dd6bcc141ee6f5af9f4501a695


6c8c801bb71b2cd90a2c1595092358e46cbfe63e62ef6994345d6969993ea2d6


North Korea Bitten by Bitcoin Bug 25
After analyzing both KSNETADSL.dll modules, our preliminary assessment is that neither of the modules are the correct
target for RatankbaPOS. We can at least gain some insight into the purpose of KSNETADSL.dll, which appears to be the
handling of encrypted and decrypted credit card numbers for a KSNET-related POS framework system (Fig. 45). Further
analysis of RatankbaPOS focusing on the code used for C&C revealed the likely purpose of this implant
Figure 45: Screenshot showing KSNET module interaction with CARD_NO registry key
Figure 46: Hook handler creating new thread for C&C then hooking KSNETADSL.dll
Our analysis of the C&C communication revealed a number of clues as to what was being exfiltrated. Initially, the implant
uses strchr to find the first occurrence of “=” in the string data that is received from the hook of KSNETADSL.dll. Next,
37-bytes beginning at 16-bytes before the position of the “=” are copied to a buffer. Finally, that buffer is compared to a
substitution buffer that was created at the beginning of RatankbaPOS’ execution (Fig. 47). The substitution algorithm uses
the values starting at offset 0x30-0x39 in the “E”-filled buffer to substitute the ASCII values of “0-9” for “ZCKOADBLNX” as
well as at offset 0x3D for substitution of ASCII “=” to “Y”. Therefore, values “0-9” will be obfuscated to “ZCKOADBLNX”
while “=” will be obfuscated to “Y” (Fig. 48).
Figure 47: Obfuscation substitution buffer created in RatankbaPOS
North Korea Bitten by Bitcoin Bug 26
Figure 48: Obfuscation substitution buffer in memory
To obfuscate the data, RatankbaPOS simply uses the hex value of the cleartext ASCII string to substitute itself for a value
in the substitution buffer. For instance, a value of “0” would be substituted to “Z” while any equals signs (“=”) will be
substituted for “Y”. This method is used to likely obfuscate the data so it is harder to detect by simply glancing at network
traffic or through the use of heuristic-based detection of plaintext credit card data transmitted over the network. Once
the stolen data has been obfuscated, it is sent in a POST HTTP request to the URL /list.jsp?action=up using the same
hardcoded UA as the injector: “Nimo Software HTTP Retriever 1.0” (Fig. 49). So far we have observed the following C&C
domains: www.energydonate[.]com and online-help.serveftp[.]com.
Figure 49: DoC2 function that obfuscates stolen data and exfiltrates to a C&C
North Korea Bitten by Bitcoin Bug 27
Based on documentation we have found online,
RatankbaPOS is possibly targeting plaintext track data in
the first 16 bytes followed by a “=” and finally followed by
encrypted POS-related data beginning with “99” (Fig. 50).
According to the document, this is an encrypted form of
the track data. Based on this, there is the possibility that
this campaign may be targeting a SoftCamp POS-related
software application, framework, or device. If we are correct
and the values “99” always follow the “=” sign then one
could potentially find exfiltrated data in network traffic by
searching for the string “YXX” starting at offset 16 in the
client body of an HTTP POST request. However, more logic
will likely be necessary to reduce false positives but this
opens up several options for detection.
Figure 50: Documentation on South Korean POS
software depicting POS data that matches the pattern
RatankbaPOS is searching for (markings not ours)