Banking Trojan Analysis
Like the Trojan from the first campaign, this sample is executed through search-order
hijacking. In this case, the binary abused is a legitimate Windows tool, Certmgr.exe, that
loads Cryptui.dll. Since this tool depends on a legitimate DLL named cryptui.dll, the
search order path will find the malicious Trojan with the same name in the same directory
and load it into its process space.
The malicious DLL exports 21 functions. Only DllEntryPoint contains real code that is
necessary to start the execution of the malicious code. The other functions return
hardcoded values that serve no real purpose.
On execution, the Trojan creates a mutex called "correria24" to allow only one instance
of it to run at a time.
Web page converted to PDF with the PDFmyURL PDF creation API !
Web page converted to PDF with the PDFmyURL PDF creation API !
Figure 21: Host Recon Data Sent to Second C2 Server
The malware alters the value of registry key
Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Advanced\ExtendedUIHoverTime
to 2710 in order to change the number of milliseconds a thumbnail is showed while
hovering on the taskbar, as seen in Figure 22.
Web page converted to PDF with the PDFmyURL PDF creation API !
Figure 22: ExtendedUIHoverTime Registry Key Change
Like the Trojan from the first campaign, this sample checks if the foreground window's
title contains names of Brazilian banks and digital coins by looking for hardcoded
strings.
The malware displays fake forms on top of the banking sites and intercepts credentials
from the victims. It can also display a fake Windows Update whenever there is nefarious
activity in the background, as seen in Figure 23.
Figure 23: Fake Form Displaying Windows Update
The sample also contains a keylogger functionality, as shown in Figure 24.
Figure 25: Partial List of Victims
This sample contains most of the important strings encrypted. We provide the following
script (Figure 26) in order to decrypt them.
Figure 26: String Decryption Script