Standalone backdoor based on IIS ServerManager and HTTPListener
Since mid-2020, in addition to the FOXSHELL as a means to proxy the traffic, we also
observed a rather sophisticated standalone passive backdoor, written in .NET and meant
to be deployed on IIS servers. It is obfuscated with similar techniques as FOXSHELL and
masquerades as System.Drawing.Design.dll . The SDD backdoor was
previously analyzed by a Saudi researcher but was never attributed to a specific threat
actor or campaign.
C&C Communication
The SSD backdoor sets up C&C communication through an HTTP listener on the infected
machine. It is achieved using two classes:
ServerManager – A part of the System.Web.Administration namespace in .NET
used for managing and configuring Internet Information Services (IIS) on a Windows
server, such as get configuration, create, modify, or delete IIS sites, applications,
and application pools.
HTTPListener – A class in the .NET Framework used for creating custom HTTP
servers, independent of IIS and based on HTTP API.
ServerManager is used to extract the sites hosted by the IIS server and build the HashSet
of URL prefixes to listen on:
Figure 22 – Obfuscated code of angleoppose_river function that builds HashSet of URL prefixes
based on sites and bindings configured on the IIS server ( Illdefy array provides the relative URls).
In this specific case, the only relative URI configured in the malware sample is
Temporary_Listen_Addresses . The malware then uses the HttpListener class to start
listening on the specified URL prefixes:
Figure 23 – The HttpListener start code.
C&C command execution
The backdoor has several capabilities: execute commands using cmd.exe, upload and
download files, execute processes with specified arguments, and run additional .NET
assemblies.
Figure 24 – Request handler of the SDD backdoor.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2023/from-albania-to-the-middle-east-the-scarred-manticore-is-listening/ 17/21
1/16/24, 1:06 PM From Albania to the Middle East: The Scarred Manticore is Listening - Check Point Research
First, if the POST request body contains data, the malware parses it and handles the
message as one of the 4 commands it supports. Otherwise, if the request contains a
parameter Vet, the malware simply decodes its value from base64 and executes it
with cmd /c . If none of these is true, then the malware handles the heartbeat mechanism:
if the request URL contains the string wOxhuoSBgpGcnLQZxipa in lowercase, then the
malware sends back UsEPTIkCRUwarKZfRnyjcG13DFA along with a 200 OK response.
The data from the POST request is encrypted using Base64 and simple XOR-based
encryption:
Figure 25 – Command decryption algorithm.
After decrypting the data of the message, the malware parses it according to the following
order:
DWORD command_type
DWORD command_name_length
STRING command_name
STRING data
Figure 26 – Switch that handles possible SDD backdoor command types.
The possible commands, as named by the threat actors, include:
“Command” – Executes a process with a specified argument. In this case, the data is
parsed to extract the process name and its argument.
“Upload” – Uploads a file to the specified path in the infected system.
“Download” – Sends a specified file to the threat actors.
“Rundll” – Loads assembly and runs it with specified parameter (if exists).
The response data is built the same way as the request (returns command type,
command name, and output) and then encrypted with the same XOR-based algorithm as
the request.