Dropper analysis
The dropper is usually created using the Nullsoft Scriptable Install System (NSIS)
installer (although in the past we have seen variants created with Inno Setup), a powerful
tool for creating scriptable program installers. The dropper (NSIS installer) file contains
just one randomly named encrypted binary file.
The NSIS installer script then calls
Microsoft CryptoAPIs to decrypt the
binary file, which then becomes a 7Zip archive that will extract the
files. Figure 10 shows a string
(tno7wul0zusmglmdl) used for
deriving the decryption key on line 578.
Figure 9. Installer with one randomly named binary file
Figure 10. Code showing a password to derive the RC4 decryption key used to decrypt random
binary files
This string is then hashed with MD5 algorithm (see constant 0x00008003).
Figure 11. MD5 hashing of the password
Figure 12. Deriving RC4 key
The dwFlags parameter (see value 0x280011) tells us the length of the key modulus in
bits, which is set with the upper 16 bits (0x28 / 8 = 40 / 8 = 5 bytes ). Lower 16 bits are
flags CRYPT_EXPORTABLE and CRYPT_NO_SALT.
Therefore, the first five bytes of the MD5 of the string for key derivation is the RC4 key
used to decrypt the 7-Zip archive.
Figure 13. Documentation explaining the computation of the length of the key
https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/21/k/campaign-abusing-rats-uses-fake-websites.html 7/13
3/2/22, 10:34 AM Campaign Abusing Legitimate Remote Administrator Tools Uses Fake Cryptocurrency Websites
The extracted 7-Zip archive contains several files, most of which are legitimate nonmalicious files belonging to the RAT. In Figure 14, only those files in red indicate the
additions by malware developers.
The batch file (.bat) is a starter of the main executable (Assistant, ast.exe) file, while the
Config file (.cfg) contains encrypted configuration. The bitmap file (.bmp) is used for
deriving the key to decrypt the config file. Finally, the quartz.dll is the malicious DLL
containing the malware that is sideloaded by ast.exe. Although the real length of the
quartz DLL is several dozens of kilobytes, its length is artificially inflated by appending a
huge overlay of zeroes. This is likely to prevent or discourage some security solutions
from uploading these large files for further analysis.
Figure 14. Contents of the 7-Zip archive with the RAT. The files in red are the ones added by the
malware developer.