Leaked Data and Compromised Accounts: Demand for Japanese Companies
Among the most prominent threats on the darknet, KELA observed leaks and sales of
Japanese entities’ data. While many offers are related to regular users, some
actors are specifically looking for corporate data of Japanese
organizations.
A threat actor requesting for corporate emails in Asian countries, including Japan
A threat actor requesting for fresh Japan databases. During several days, he
received three answers from potential sellers asking for contacts to probably make a
deal
2/13
Exposed data may include personal information of companies’ customers and
employees, sensitive internal documents, and credentials to the company’s resources.
For example, the KelvinSecurityTeam hacking group has been trading a database of a
major Japan corporation since July 2020. It has been recently promoted again as a part
of their offers.
The threat actor claimed that the database contains records of 150,000 customers,
possibly Japanese ones. As KELA observed from samples of the database, the records
include names, addresses, birth dates, emails, and phone numbers, as well as some data
related to their work history. KelvinSecurityTeam is a hacking collective with some
members from Venezuela, Peru, and Colombia, which is known for selling hacking tools,
carding services, and private data dumps on forums.
While personal information and internal documents require malicious
actors to perform multiple steps to attack the company further (for
example, via specially-crafted phishing campaigns), exposed credentials
provide an easier way to compromise the company via accessing its internal
systems and software in use.
Exposed credentials can be divided into two types:
Leaked credentials. Corporate email logins, with or without passwords, which
are usually being leaked or sold by threat actors on underground forums.
Overall, KELA discovered more than 100 million exposed Japanese
emails in our sources.
3/13
Compromised accounts. Logins and passwords to accounts that grant access
to tools and software used in a compromised environment, such as RDP, VPN
solutions, and more, which are usually being sold through underground
autoshops.
Top 10 email domains featured in leaked credentials gathered by KELA’s tools from
cybercrime communities
Part of compromised accounts offered in autoshops (shown within KELA’s
DARKBEAST)
4/13
This data can enable attackers to access the company’s resources and provide further
malicious activity, ranging from social engineering to malware attacks. Ultimately,
every leaked data can theoretically become an entry point for large-scale
attacks.
Based on information gathered from multiple darknet sources that KELA tracks, we
defined that many Japanese corporations, as well as government and educational
entities, are suffering significantly from these types of threats:
5/13