Technical analysis
A new data exfiltration tool - LimePad
We recently identified a new and previously undocumented data exfiltration tool used by
this APT group. It is distributed as a Python-based application packaged inside a VHDX
file. Based on the unique strings present in the first iteration of this stealer, we have
named it LimePad.
In this blog, we are sharing some of the key functionalities of this new tool. A more indepth technical analysis write up of this tool will be published by us as a follow-up blog
since we are still investigating their activities.
Similar to some of the other malicious binaries used by the SideCopy APT group in the
past, this new tool is a PyInstaller-based payload as well. We found 2 unique examples of
the new tool in-the-wild, both of which were distributed inside very large VHDX files with
https://www.zscaler.com/blogs/security-research/apt-36-uses-new-ttps-and-new-tools-target-indian-governmental-organizations 7/25
1/30/24, 2:11 PM Indian Governmental Organizations Targeted by APT-36
size greater than 60 MB, each.
The main purpose of this new tool is to constantly upload any new file of interest from the
victim's machine to the attacker's server. It synchronizes this file stealing operation
between the victim's machine and the attacker's server by maintaining a local custom
SQLite database. This database holds the latest records of all the files which are
uploaded, in queue or newly modified. It is done to ensure that any new files or
modifications to existing local files are synced up with the remote server.
Time zone check
Before starting any malicious activity, it checks whether the keyword "india" is present in
the timezone config of the machine. Due to this, the payload will execute only on
machines configured in India time zone.
Once it confirms that the user is located in India, it will download a decoy PDF from the
attacker’s server which is displayed to the victim as a social engineering lure.
We analyzed the objects in the decoy PDF file to recover the metadata corresponding to
generation of the PDF and we uncovered a key indicator which further helped us
correlate this activity to APT-36 with a high-confidence.
Figure 8 shows the metadata which indicates that this PDF was created with the author
name: “Apolo Jones” and Microsoft Word 2016 was used to generate the PDF.
Figure 8: metadata of the decoy PDF file
This is the same string present in the PDB path of multiple backdoored variants of
Kavach application used by APT-36 in 2022.
One such example is the backdoored Kavach binary with MD5 hash:
6b552512c1b6479d8a8ae526663af864
PDB path: C:\Users\Apolo Jones\source\repos\Kavach\obj\Release\Kavach.pdb
https://www.zscaler.com/blogs/security-research/apt-36-uses-new-ttps-and-new-tools-target-indian-governmental-organizations 8/25
1/30/24, 2:11 PM Indian Governmental Organizations Targeted by APT-36
Key functionalities and configuration of Limepad
This data exfiltration tool is modular and contains many custom Python libraries
developed by the attacker to assist the main functionality of LimePad. There is also a
config file called "control" which is used by LimePad for its settings. The complete config
file is available in the Appendix. Below we give a brief overview of the config fields which
can help understand the features and functionalities of this stealer at a high-level.
VERSION field is configured as "0.1-18". This indicates that the tool is in very early
stages of development by the threat actor.
USERFILE defines the name of the local SQLite database which is used to keep track of
the file sync operations. In the first version of this tool, it was configured as "Limepad.db"
due to which we have named this tool as "Limepad"
The fields, STARTDATA, LOCKDOORS, and DOORS are used to create a Windows URL
Shortcut file which is used for the purpose of persistence. This URL shortcut file is placed
in the Windows Startup directory with the name: "Limepad.dll" and it points to the local file
path of the malicious payload as shown below.
[InternetShortcut]
URL=file:///
A similar persistence mechanism was used by another tool in SideCopy APT's arsenal in
2021.
SERVERS field is used to configure an array of attacker-controlled C2 servers. In both
the identified samples, only one C2 server was configured each time. However, the code
has support for multiple C2 servers and will cycle through them until it finds a working C2
server.
DUSSEN field contains a hex-encoded version of the string - "india". This is what is used
for the India time zone check in the main subroutine of Limepad before starting any
malicious activity.
The fields - DBTABLES, DBTABLES_INDEXES and SYNC_RULES_CONFIG all
correspond to the structure and configuration of the tables in the local SQLite database.
Figure 9 shows the structure of the local SQLite database used for synchronizing files
between infected machine and server.
https://www.zscaler.com/blogs/security-research/apt-36-uses-new-ttps-and-new-tools-target-indian-governmental-organizations 9/25
1/30/24, 2:11 PM Indian Governmental Organizations Targeted by APT-36
Figure 9: Structure of the local SQLite database
Figure 10 shows an example of contents of the SQLite database on an infected VM.
Figure 10: Contents of a database from an infected VM
It is important to note that "SYNC_RULES_CONFIG" contains a set of rules which
defines which files the attacker is interested in stealing.
It has a different set of file extensions configured for HOME, FIXED and REMOVABLE
drives. Based on the configured file extensions, it is evident that the threat actor is
interested in stealing documents (PDF, text and MS Office files), email local databases
(DBX format) and various drawing file extensions such as DWG and DXF. These drawing
file extensions correspond to "AutoCAD" or computer-aided design vector files.