Active reconnaissance isn’t as easy in the cloud.
The attacker places malware on the target during the delivery phase. In the onpremises world, the attacker can create an email that has a malicious link to a
website or include an attachment that leads to the installation of malicious code.
Another option is to copy the malware onto a USB key and then place the USB
key in a strategic location so that the intended target finds it. The victim then
puts the USB key into their computer, which compromises it.
In the public cloud, the attacker needs to deliver the malicious payload to a
server. Because it’s unlikely to find a logged on user on a server to install
malicious code, the attacker needs to find a way to gain direct access. One way
to accomplish this is through a brute force attack. If such an attack is successful,
the attacker will be able to place malware on the server.
The defender has an opportunity to detect the malware on the server before the
attacker moves on to the exploitation phase.
Exploitation
On-premises exploitation typically focuses on client-side vulnerabilities. In the
public cloud the focus is on server-side vulnerabilities.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  9
Persistence
In most cases, attackers of client operating systems will use tools that persist on
the compromised device by placing them on the local hard disk. Tools aren’t
placed in memory because client computers reboot relatively often for system
updates, policy changes, or even simple password changes or bug checks.
In contrast, server uptime is much longer, which benefits attackers because they
can load exploit code into memory and have the code persist for an extended
period of time. Longer server uptime reduces the risk of detection because there
is no persistent code on disk that’s easy to detect.
Although traditional disk scanning techniques won’t find evidence of in-memory
malware, defenders can use crash dump analysis to discover and examine
malware that exists only in memory.
Internal reconnaissance
In many on-premises client attack scenarios, the attacker uses custom tools.
Built-in toolsets are not as robust as those found on servers and therefore don’t
meet their needs.
Such custom toolsets aren’t seen very often in the cloud. Attackers take
advantage of built-in admin tools, which are typically more powerful than what’s
found on client operating systems. These built-in admin tools help attackers by
reducing the risk of detection; they don’t need to place custom attack tools on
disk.
Because new attack tools aren’t being installed on cloud-based virtual machines,
they can’t be detected with disk scanning techniques. Instead, defenders can use
machine learning and behavioral analytics to differentiate between legitimate
admin activity and malicious activity.
Lateral movement
Lateral movement across on-premises networks uses a machine (or virtual
machine) pivot. Attackers move from machine to machine by obtaining
increasingly privileged credentials as they expand outward. Tools such as
mimikatz are used by attackers to harvest such credentials.
The machine pivot isn’t currently the norm in the cloud. There are a number of
reasons for this, such as the fact that tenants maintain a number of resource
10 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
islands in the cloud. Also, in most cases there is limited trust between the cloud
and on-premises deployments.
In the cloud, the primary pivot appears to cloud resources.
For example, with resource pivoting, an attacker will
compromise an IaaS virtual machine, find credentials for a
storage service, where more credentials are discovered,
some of which allow access to a SQL instance. The attacker
hops services instead of virtual machines.