more advanced adversaries.
operations are in Iran or the large Iranian
diaspora—the so-called internal enemies that
Tehran’s leadership fears. The early and effective adoption of the internet and social media by regime opponents and critics has fed
the perception of Tehran’s hardliners that foreign powers are conspiring to subvert the
Islamic Republic through new technologies. But the targets of Tehran’s digital surveillance include not only human rights defenders and perceived enemies of the state but
also apolitical cultural institutions and even Iranian government agencies. Digital espionage and disruptive attacks against government critics have demonstrated to the Iranian
public that its online activities are not outside the reach of the state.
This report provides a historical analysis of the activities and observed capabilities of
Iranian threat actors who perform offensive cyber operations, most likely on behalf of
the Islamic Republic. For purposes of maintaining a consistent terminology, the cyber
activities covered in this report are framed in terms of “offensive cyber operations,” which
in the U.S. Department of Defense’s words are actions “intended to project power by
the application of force in or through cyberspace,” [1] or through distinguishing the intended effects (such as disruption, exfiltration, or destruction). This narrows the scope of
research to intelligence and other offensive actions, rather than the full realm of Iranian
government attempts to build influence online or control information.
Hackers working in coordination on cyber operations are described as “threat actors,”
6     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
although groups can have a single member and their composition can change over time.
The terms “state-sponsored” or “state-aligned” are used throughout this report to reflect
the direct relationship between the attackers and the Iranian government that is accounted for throughout the operations. [2]
Forensic artifacts and other records collected from cybersecurity research provide unprecedented insight into the security and intelligence priorities of the Iranian regime.
The true intent of an attacker is not always evident in an intrusion. The compromise of a
system for espionage or reconnaissance can later provide an electronic foothold used for
sabotage. While Tehran has conducted highly visible attacks against rivals during times
of conflict, the decade-long history of Iranian cyber operations reveals that the primary
reason for such campaigns appears to be espionage.
Iran has been the target of espionage and destructive coercive measures launched by foreign states, including not only the United States and Israel but also Canada, France, Russia, and the UK. These attacks further motivated Tehran to develop indigenous defensive
and offensive cyber capabilities as well as a credible retaliatory threat. These exchanges are
directly correlated to Iran’s domestic and geopolitical climate, which has been reflected in
the reduction of disruptive attacks since the signing of the 2015 nuclear deal, formally known as the
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).