Area 13: Effectiveness of workarounds
FA2.KF22 Emergency workarounds implemented
across the HSE, HGs/hospitals and CHOs were ad
hoc and not always based on predefined solutions
or processes, and have caused long remediation
tails.
It was widely reported that responders across the
HSE, HGs/hospitals and CHOs implemented timely
and agile workarounds that allowed core critical
processes to continue in the absence of IT. [304, 305] 306
The lack of preparedness for a cyber incident of this
scale, including a lack of Clinical and Services Impact
Analysis and scenario-specific playbooks for cyber
response, meant that whilst many workarounds were
pre-agreed and rehearsed, others were defined in an
ad hoc manner; as there was no systematic approach
to maintaining continuity of patient-critical processes
(see also findings FA2.KF3, FA2.KF4 and FA2.KF23).
In some cases, predefined workarounds were familiar
to responders and well-rehearsed, for example, where
clinicians were able to switch from digital to paper
301 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
302 The CRR should inform the development of severe but plausible scenarios against which Crisis Management Teams are exercised.
The timing, nature and extent of testing should reflect the criticality of the underlying recovery solution / activity
303 CRR Q1 2021 Review Report Final post EMT meeting 27 04 21 v1.0 27 04 21
304 Site Workshop 6 (Hospital C)
305 Communications & Stakeholder Management Workshop
306 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
85 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
based procedures. [307] However, several stakeholders
noted that the workarounds were primarily designed
for individual systems or processes and proved to be
time limited, thereby not suitable for continued use
throughout the recovery from a total and lasting IT
outage. Additionally, whilst staff in community service
environments had experience relying on paper patient
charts and were able to adapt quickly, the after action
review (AAR) collated by the HSE identified that some
staff (clinical and non-clinical) had never worked
in a paper-based system and so risked missing
relevant information from the different format used
in paper documentation. [308] This introduced a risk of
information loss if it was not ultimately uploaded into
the patient data management system.
Other workarounds, although creative, were devised
during the Incident and, as a result, had not been
reviewed from an overarching security or risk
perspective. Many workarounds were documented
as issues in the Programme RAID Log, [309] such as the
use of runners to convey lab samples and test results,
and the use of whiteboards and shared excel sheets
on standalone laptops to populate hospital bed
bureaus, due to the increased risk of human error.
The risks associated with the continuation of clinical
treatment and the use of operational workarounds
were assessed and communicated on a regular basis,
including clinical guidance on how treatments should
be prioritised and managed. [310, 311] Many of these
workarounds carried a risk of loss or contamination of
patient data, misplacement of patients and incorrect
disclosure of patient data, all with a secondary risk of
patient care being negatively impacted. One example
quoted during interviews that illustrates the lack of
accurate patient data, was of a surgeon questioning
the whereabouts of a patient due for surgery, when
that patient had already been operated on.
Several of the emergency workarounds established
to support information sharing and allow individuals
and teams to respond at pace, such as the use of
personal emails and devices, WhatsApp and paper
records, have resulted in an ongoing data remediation
risk. Many stakeholders noted that some of the
workarounds implemented were not designed with
consideration of the need to consolidate and retrofit
data when systems were restored. [312, 313] Whilst some
interviewees noted they had hired extra resources
to manually enter paper-based clinical information
to restored systems, the absence of IT systems has
resulted in large volumes of paper records, some
of which are likely to include duplicate, incomplete
or incorrect data that will need to be investigated
and remediated. The backload of COVID-19 data
in conjunction with the clinical data from the
ransomware attack will likely take considerable time,
people and resources to rectify.
The HSE issued a communication on 12 August 2021
to stand down the use of personal emails and ensure
all data was deleted from local storage areas. [314]
However, some stakeholders from hospitals and
CHOs reported they have not received clear guidance
on the steps required to address this risk. The
absence of an assigned owner for the remediation of
clinical data will make it difficult for staff members to
direct enquiries relating to correct data handling and
remediation, resulting in delayed resolution of the
issue.
FA2.KR22.1 Design clinical and services
continuity workarounds, informed by the Clinical
and Services Impact Analysis (see strategic
recommendation 4.1 in section 4)
The HSE should design and agree clinical and
services continuity workarounds, for critical
processes, with the agility and governance to be
maintained for a prolonged period, and based on
the Clinical and Services Impact Analysis (see also
recommendations FA2.KR3.1, FA2.KR4 and FA2.
KR23).
FA2.KR22.2 Design workarounds to support rapid
data remediation post-incident or crisis (see
tactical recommendation 1.2 in section 4)
The HSE should:
• Establish a pre-agreed out of band
communications and information sharing
platform (see also finding FA2.KR16) to ensure
data generated by workarounds outside normal
operations is captured in a format that can easily
be retrofitted with the information held on HSE
systems. As part of the organisation’s stand-down
process, each site and workstream should assign
an individual with responsibility for overseeing the
consolidation of patient and service data; and
• Reconcile all medical data stored and managed
through interim processes post the attack,
307 Site Workshop 11 (Hospital A)
308 Healy, O. Dr. A mixed methods analysis of the effectiveness of the patient safety risk mitigation strategies following a Healthcare IT
failure, Dated 30th September 2021.
309 Programme RAID Log
310 CCO Clinical Memo 1 15.05.2021
311 CCO Clinical Memo 2 21.05.21
312 Site Workshop 1 (CHO B)
313 Site Workshop 5 (Hospital F)
314 Temporary Use of Personal ICT Resources.msg
86 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
including data stored on personal devices/
accounts and in paper form.
FA2.KR22.3 Rehearse workarounds in multi-team
exercises (see strategic recommendation 4.2 in
section 4)
The HSE, HGs and CHOs should participate in
multi-team exercises to explore how high impact or
likely scenarios could impact their operations. This
is extremely important as it helps identify likely and
potential impacts to the organisation and responders.
These may often need a team and significant
investment to resolve, however even the discussion
and establishment of hypothetical workarounds will
likely reduce the number of ineffective emergency
protocols and allow space for creative thinking to
consider the ideal solution for all parties involved (see
also recommendation FA2.KR8.3).
FA2.KR22.4 Consider a review to establish the
longer term clinical impacts of the Conti attack
(see strategic recommendation 4.2 in section 4)
Finally, the HSE should consider conducting a review
to understand the longer term clinical impacts that
resulted from the Conti attack. This review should
build on the findings of the draft research report into
the effectiveness of the patient safety risk mitigation
strategies following the Incident, [315] and inform future
steps to improve the HSE resilience against potential
future attacks and minimise the risk to patient care.