CrowdStrike Global Threat Intel Report
High Volume of Southeast Asia Targeting
Governments in Southeast Asia and organizations doing business in the
region have been popular targets for China-based targeted intrusion
operations for years. China is generally interested in Southeast Asia because
of its proximity and its desire to monitor activity in the region in order
to retain a strategic advantage. However, during 2014, China was more
specifically motivated to carry out targeted intrusion operations in the
region by tensions between it and other Southeast Asian nations, primarily
Vietnam and the Philippines, due to disputes over territorial rights in the
South China Sea.
The South China Sea has long been a source of tension between China and
other Southeast Asian nations. The United Nations (UN) attempted to ease
these tensions in its 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea, which granted
countries in the region rights to marine and energy resources within a certain
range of their coast. This was meant to give all countries in the region some
claim to vital trade routes and to the vast energy resources believed to exist
there. China disputes the UN-granted rights and stakes a historical claim to
almost the entire South China Sea.
Tensions really boiled over in May 2014 when a Chinese state-owned
energy company placed an oil rig, HD-981, in Vietnamese territorial
waters. The rig was deployed close to the Paracel Islands, which are
claimed by both China and Vietnam. The presence of the rig precipitated
continuous clashes between Chinese and Vietnamese vessels, violent
protests of Chinese businesses in Vietnam, and elevated tensions
between China and other nations in the region such as the Philippines.
It was during this time in May 2014 when China-based targeted intrusion
activity against entities in Southeast Asia increased significantly.
The uptick was likely due to Chinese interest in monitoring reaction
of government and other organizations in the region. Numerous
adversaries (primarily GOBLIN PANDA, VIXEN PANDA, LOTUS PANDA,
PREDATOR PANDA, and PIRATE PANDA) and numerous malware variants
(PlugX, Poison Ivy, Mirage, Enfal, and Naikon) were observed being used in
these operations.
42