Insider Threat Risks to Flat Environments
In mid-2020, a technology provider engaged Mandiant to investigate
a suspected intrusion in their environment. The client notified Mandiant
that an unauthorized user had accessed their development/test and Amazon Web
Services (AWS) environments remotely. The client had also identified evidence to
indicate the unauthorized user deleted Relational Database Service (RDS) backups
within the AWS environment. For this investigation, the insider threat team was
engaged to:
                        - Identify the attacker: Collect and deliver evidence that could identify the

unauthorized user.
                        - Determine any loss of client data: Review all forensic evidence for data theft.

The Mandiant
insider threat team
investigates client
environments using
a Follow the Data
model that echoes
methodologies
from the National
Institute of
Standards and
Technology (NIST)
and the National
Insider Threat
Taskforce (NITTF).
Their focused
data collection
allows clients to
take necessary
legal actions, as
coordinated with
their third-party
legal counsels.
Figure 10.
Timeline of events
constructed by the
insider threat case
study.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 74
Analysis
The Mandiant insider threat team analyzed AWS CloudTrail logs and Linux
authentication logs and identified a timeline of events which detailed the logon
activities of the suspected insider threat actor (Fig. 10).
While the threat actor took steps to provide a level of anonymity to their actions,
Mandiant experts were able to correlate discrete artifacts across sessions to tie the
activity to a single user.
Fifteen days before the employee was laid off, the Linux server logged a remote
SSH session from the IP address x.x.x.121 which authenticated using an SSH key
associated with the ubuntu account—a default account in Ubuntu-based Amazon
Machine Images (AMI). At the time of analysis, the IP address x.x.x.121 was
associated with a residential Internet provider.
Three days before the employee was laid off, AWS CloudTrail logged the
employee authenticating to cloud infrastructure from the IP address x.x.x.113 using
their legitimate credentials. At the time of analysis, the IP address x.x.x.113 was
associated with an anonymized VPN provider. During this session, AWS CloudTrail
logged the creation of users and as well as an EC2 instance by the employee.
Twelve hours after the employee had been laid off, the Linux server logged an SSH
session from the same x.x.x.113 IP address used to access AWS cloud infrastructure;
it was authenticated using the private key for the ubuntu account. By correlating
individual artifacts across multiple logging sources Mandiant consultants were
able to develop an evidence-backed narrative which associated the recently
discharged employee with both the anonymous VPN IP and the private key used
for certificate-based authentication.
AWS CloudTrail logs and host-based forensic artifacts allowed Mandiant
consultants to detail the actions undertaken by the recently laid off employee after
the employee had authenticated to the development server as the ubuntu account.
Command line history and sudo logs extant on the Ubuntu-based EC2 instance
provided key artifacts to drive further investigation into the AWS CloudTrail logs.
Mandiant experts identified logs that indicated the installation of the awscli toolset
which facilitates the submission of API requests to the AWS API.
T+12 Hours
Employee
connects from
previously used
anonymized
VPN IP
address (T-3)
using the SSH
key (T-15)
T-15 Days
Employee
first accesses
public facing
dev server
using SSH
public key for
ubuntu user
from corporate
laptop
T-3 Days
Employee first
accesses
AWS using
username from
an anonymized
VPN IP address
and creates
user and EC2
instances
T-0 Days
Employee is
discharged
and known
accesses are
removed
T+13 Hours
Employee
connects from
development
server to AWS
cloud and
creates users
and instances
T+15 Hours
Employee
enumerates
instances to
see what
client data can
be viewed
T+16 Hours
Employee
begins to
delete RDS
backups and
project data
created while
previously
employed
T+18 Hours
Employee
terminates
session once
other logins
are seen from
client
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 75
Thirteen hours after the employee had been laid off, the ubuntu account used the
awscli utility to provision new AWS IAM user a account in the client’s AWS tenant.
Three hours later, after failing to enumerate the EC2 instances to which the new
AWS IAM account would have access, the ubuntu account issued API calls
which deleted RDS backups, removed the accounts it had created and terminated
the session.
Outcome
The Mandiant insider threat team was able to build a timeline of unauthorized
activity, assure the customer there was no evidence of client data loss and
subsequently remediate the environment to prevent similar future insider and
external threats. At the end of the engagement, the client’s environment was more
secure.
Recommendations
Credential revocation
The client believed the insider was not aware of the upcoming layoffs. Mandiant
often recommends that clients discharging employees should coordinate access
removal with notification to protect both the organization and the employee. This
would hold true even if an employee voluntarily resigns or retires. All SSH keys,
PEM files, service passwords and application passwords to which the individual had
access should be rotated for all environments. Similarly, provisions within multifactor authentication (MFA) should be immediately unenrolled when an employee
or contractor leaves the organization.
Network Segmentation
Historically, Mandiant has found that most client networks enable at least a basic
level of network segmentation. However, there often is no separation between the
development and production networks. Access controls between development
and production networks can limit opportunities for an unauthorized user to move
laterally between zones. Mandiant recommends organizations thoroughly review
their network segmentation and limit unnecessary traffic between sensitive and
less-trusted environments. This will help prevent insider threats from moving
laterally or connecting from an internal network segment to a cloud environment.
Also, systems that do not need to be public-facing should be segmented from
public access and restricted as much as possible.
Logging
In this case, the client had enabled logging and event aggregation to a security
information and event management (SIEM) system. This ensured the authenticity
of the logs used during the investigation. Linux based operating systems log
activity in plain text which provides an opportunity for an attacker to manually
edit the log entries generated by their activity. By streaming logs to a secondary
source, the client not only followed best-practice logging guidance but maintained
critical information necessary for an in-depth investigation.
Least Privilege
This client had many administrative controls for most of its production systems.
However, the development network had users with extensive permissions that
extended to the creation of accounts in both the client network and the cloud
environment. Mandiant recommends organizations implement comprehensive
user access controls across all environments on their networks to ensure that user,
developer and administrator accounts have only the necessary level of permissions
to complete their tasks and maintain business continuity.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 76