Notable Activity
after claiming a string of DDoS attacks on multiple gaming companies
and online gaming servers. The group likely originated out of the Steam
gaming community, where some of its suspected members engaged in early
DDoS attacks on rival gaming clans and their servers. DerpTrolling’s antics
were often childish and had no clear motive other than being “for the lulz”
and to boost their own egos. For this reason, they cannot be classified as
hacktivists. Despite their immaturity, the collective was able to consistently
carry out DDoS attacks on targets of their choosing, and these attacks had a
real-world effect on the victims within the gaming community.
The attacks were particularly noteworthy as their DDoS tool, dubbed the
Gaben Laser Beam (GLB) after Gabe Newell, the creator of Half-Life and
the Steam community, supposedly created an attack that exceeded 400
gbps of network traffic utilizing a NTP reflection attack. This suggested
DerpTrolling possessed an above-average knowledge of network protocols.
While NTP reflection is commonly known in the security community, most
“script kiddies” or “skids” were not aware of some of these more advanced
techniques involving amplification, which allows for fewer devices needed to
pull off larger DDoS attacks.
DerpTrolling has reportedly had several run-ins with law enforcement,
though it is unclear how much of this is verifiable versus a ploy to increase
their notoriety. One supposed encounter resulted in the group going silent
for several months before returning and carrying out lower-level attacks on
the gaming community once again. Given the collective’s poor operational
security practices, it is likely that the members are actively being tracked by
law enforcement agencies and that they cannot continue to maintain high
profile attacks while evading capture.
LizardSquad
Another group to begin DDoS operations targeting the gaming community
in 2014 is LizardSquad. The group was characterized by DerpTrolling
as much less skilled, however there may be some overlap of members
between the groups. At this time, LizardSquad has not shown any of the
more advanced amplification techniques used previously by DerpTrolling.
LizardSquad quickly rose to prominence after several media stunts drew
29