The sweetener: Honeypots, honeytokens, honeynets
A honeypot is a system, or several
networked systems, that waits for
unsolicited requests. More specifically,
honeypots observe unsolicited
activity, attract possible threat
actors and document their methods.
Honeypots are effective for discovering
opportunistic attacks, large-scale
probes or computer worms, brute
force authentication, misconfiguration,
vulnerability exploits and web
application attacks.
Information security researchers
use honeypot technologies for
counterespionage attacks because
they can mimic the organization’s
production environment but with fake
believable data as bait.
The purpose of honeypot technology
isn’t only to detect a threat actor, but
to also:


Slow down the threat actor


Lure threat actors away from


sensitive data

Collect information on the threat

actor

Gain visibility into gaps in

perimeter defenses
Honeypot technology requires the
organization to have fundamental
information security controls already
in place. To reach this higher maturity
level, organizations should:

Identify crown jewels that the threat

actor would potentially seek

Enable monitoring, logging,

alerting and response processes in
associated infrastructure

Integrate information security

infrastructure components

Train employees on

incident response

Segment the network and be able to

redirect traffic easily, if needed
Once the maturity requirements are
fulfilled, the next step is to start small
and scale up gradually. Similar to
building an SIEM infrastructure, it is
best to deploy deception solutions
based on use cases. Start with a highrisk scenario you want to address and
build from there.
The scenario can be based on either risk
analysis or real incidents. When using
real incident scenarios, it is important to
leverage cyber threat intelligence.
Start with your top identified CyberEspionage risk. Determine how
the sensitive data is stored (digital
documents, database), where it is
stored (file server, database server, web
application) and what the data looks like.
If sensitive data is stored in documents,
for instance, create realistic documents
with fake data. Then consider using a
honeytoken with a canary value that, if
used, will trigger a security alert.
A honeytoken can be as simple as
an unused official email address, a
link to an unused server, specific
keywords or records. If a honeytoken
is used, it should trigger an alert in
the security-monitoring infrastructure.
Honeytokens can also be extended
to other components such as specific
database records or invalid or unused
user accounts.
Some organizations have gone further
by intentionally using administrative
account names such as “administrator”
or “adm-yinzer” as honeytokens. These
honeytokens can be made to appear
even more enticing by associating
them with critical servers such as
domain controllers using “DC” in the
system name.
You can extend the simple document
and honeytoken approach to a system
honeypot, such as a file server hosting
the document. This allows security
administrators to detect an intrusion
before the adversary reaches the
honeytoken document. Again, the
system must pose as a standard file
server to lure the adversary.
If we extend this concept, we reach the
honeynet level, a network of honeypots.
27 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report