The Internet Explorer Vector and PowerShell Loader.
Another infection vector we found uses the Internet Explorer vulnerability CVE-2020-0674, which affects
various versions of Internet Explorer, to infect victims. This vulnerability was discovered this year and is
known for being used in targeted attacks. [8] The exploit runs a shellcode, which then runs a few stages of
a PowerShell loader.
Figure 17. The CVE-2020-0674 script used to deliver SLUB malware
14 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
Similar to the shellcode used in the Chrome exploit chain, the PowerShell version will check if the victim’s
machine is protected by certain security software. The PowerShell list is quite similar to the one used by
the shellcode with some process name variations, as shown in Figure 18.
Figure 18. PowerShell vector security product list
Based on this list, it downloads and executes up to three different backdoors. If instructed in the LPE
(Local Privilege Escalation) column, the PowerShell loader may instruct downloading and executing
an LPE binary exploiting CVE-2019-1458. This binary may download and execute the backdoors with
system privileges.
Figure 19 . List of malware payload locations
Another of the Powershell loader’s functions is recording the infections, likely for statistical tallying
purposes. For this task, it uses the same server that hosts the malicious samples.
15 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
Figure 20 . PowerShell code section infection report
The PowerShell loader will first send a request to the website using the URL referenced in the “$ip_web”
object to execute one PHP script that will capture the victim’s external IP to report the infection. After that,
it will send another request that contains the external IP and the security software detected in the victim’s
machine. The security product is encoded according to the last column shown in Figure 21; for example,
360 will be encoded as 5.
We were able to capture the report file in the server, and noticed that that most of the infections did not
have the listed security products nor any product at all (value 0) as shown in the figure below, which is a
partial list of all infections.
Figure 21 . Infections report showing a partial list of all infections
The next sections will describe the behavior of the mm/SLUB sample downloaded by the dropper.dll or
PowerShell loader or LPE exploit.
16 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations