Network traversal: Keeping a low profile
Sowbug frequently maintains a long-term presence on the networks of targeted
organizations, sometimes remaining inside a victim environment for up to six months. One
of the tactics it uses to avoid drawing attention to itself is impersonating commonly used
software packages such as Windows or Adobe Reader. It has never attempted to
compromise the software itself. Rather, it gives its tools file names similar to those used by
the software and places them in directory trees that could be mistaken for those used by the
legitimate software. This allows the attackers to hide in plain sight, as their appearance in
process listings is unlikely to arouse suspicion.
For example, in September 2016, Sowbug infiltrated an organization in Asia, deploying the
Felismus backdoor on one of its computers, Computer A, using the file name adobecms.exe
in CSIDL_WINDOWS\debug. From there, it installed additional components and tools to a
directory named CSIDL_APPDATA\microsoft\security.
The attackers then began to perform reconnaissance activities on Computer A via cmd.exe,
collecting system-related information, such as the OS version, hardware configuration, and
network information. They then performed some further reconnaissance, attempting to
identify all installed applications on the computer. They returned four days later, creating a
sub-directory called “common” in the Adobe directory of the Program Files folder, i.e.
c:\Program Files\Adobe\common, and installed another tool in this sub-directory, again
named adobecms.exe. This was possibly an updated version of the backdoor.
The attackers’ network reconnaissance appeared to be successful because a second
computer of interest in the organization was identified and compromised. The attackers then
returned to Computer A, installing another executable called fb.exe. This file appears to be
used to copy Felismus across the network to other computers and there is evidence that the
attackers used it to attempt to infect at least two more computers.
The attackers took further measures to remain under the radar by carrying out their
operations outside of standard office hours. In this case, the attackers maintained a
presence on the target’s network for nearly six months between September 2016 and March
2017.