 BLOG
more closely. The obvious difficulty here is the great potential for
false positives depending on what is “normal” for your
environment. The Deep Panda web shells discussed throughout
this blog series are attributed to China, however, many
companies have legitimate communications with China, making
this a difficult indicator to use on its own. The effectiveness of
geolocation will depend greatly on your environment and
whether or not the adversary utilizes VPN or proxy services.
Internal IPs
Traffic flows that are internal to your own network may be just as
valuable as the external IP address analysis discussed above.
Web shells are often deployed laterally by an attacker that
already has a foothold in your network and would like to have a
web shell ready as a backup should the need arise. Monitoring
http://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/mo-shells-mo-problems-network-detection/ 7/9
2016/5/2 Mo' Shells Mo' Problems - Network Detection »
anomalous internal traffic to your web servers would be a good
start to detecting this sort of lateral web shell deployment,
accompanied by appropriate network segmentation where
possible. HTTP Request Stacking, discussed in this blog post,
may be useful to find such anomalies.
Detecting the Initial Compromise
One of the most effective ways of identifying web shells (or any
adversary activity) is by identifying the initial compromise that
allowed it to be placed in your environment and then narrowing
in on surrounding activity. File stacking and web log analysis
covered earlier in this blog series are that much easier if you can
identify a timeframe or specific host for analysis.
If you have architected your network to have good packet capture
data and NetFlow available, most of the detection techniques
discussed previously in this series are also viable during
network analysis. As an example, SQL injection, remote file
inclusion and directory enumeration can be easily detected
using similar steps to those discussed in Part 3 of this blog
series, Mo’ Shells Mo’ Problems – Web Server Log Analysis. The
main difference in the network review is the platform you’ll
leverage, as you’ll want a PCAP-capable tool such as Snort or
Suricata to use for request analysis and alerting.
Summary
Detecting web shells via the network can prove to be a challenge,
but is feasible. Using a combination of the methodologies
presented in this blog series gives security teams a better
chance for detecting web shells so they don’t go unnoticed –
something the adversary has enjoyed for too long. To detect web
shells via the network, consider the following network
approaches:
Keep your IDS signatures up to date with best-of-breed
intelligence subscriptions
Know your network and identify anomalies
Monitor internal and external IP traffic
Stack your HTTP requests and see what stands out
Look for signs of initial compromise to narrow down your
search