Executive Summary
```
In the past week, we have observed an increase attack activity against the Oil & Gas industry in the
Middle East by a group of threat actors using the following handle: “ STTEAM ”. The group has also been
observed attacking and compromising state government websites in the same area.
This group has compromised web pages from various organizations in the Middle East and have added
some specific strings. We are providing those strings to local authorities to assist in identifying victim
organizations.
Some of the compromised servers will display the following screen when accessed:
Users are granted permission to copy and/or distribute this document in its original electronic form and print copies for personal use. This
document cannot be modified or converted to any other electronic or machine-readable form in whole or in part without prior written approval
of Fidelis Security Systems, Inc.
While we have done our best to ensure that the material found in this document is accurate, Fidelis Security Systems, Inc. makes no guarantee
that the information contained herein is error free.
Copyright © 2014 General Dynamics Fidelis Cybersecurity Solutions Rev. 2014-02-23
Threat Advisory #1012 Page 1 of 57 OPERATION STTEAM
www.fidelissecurity.com
www.threatgeek.com
@FidSecSys
+1800.652.4020
Once the websites are compromised, the group has been observed uploading two ASP Shell Backdoors.
One of these ASP Shell Backdoors contains words in Turkish and appears to have been developed by
someone going by the following handle:
zehir (zehirhacker@hotmail.com)
This backdoor lets the attacker obtain system information, connect to SQL databases, list tables and
execute commands, browse directories, perform file manipulations (upload, download, copy, delete,
modify, searches, etc.), and perform folder manipulations (delete, copy, etc.).
The other ASP Shell Backdoor appears to be known as “ K-Shell/ ZHC Shell 1.0 / Aspx Shell ” and
developed by two persons going by the handles of:
XXx_Death_xXX and ZHC
(stylish_boy6@yahoo.com / ZCompany Hacking Crew • hxxp://www.zone-hack[dot]com/)
This backdoor contains most of the same features in the “Zehir4” backdoor, but it adds functionality to
add a user to the system, add a user to the administrator’s group, disable the windows firewall, enable
RDP, delete IIS logs, and start the netcat utility as a reverse backdoor shell.
We observed an attacker, with following IP address, trying to upload these backdoors into a victim
system: “ 46.165.220.223 ”.
This document will provide information about these two ASP Shell Backdoors used by the threat actors in
a recent incident. The information will provide functionality and network indicators.