Structure of the report
Contents 6
This report consists of 6 main sections in which each reader can easily find the information they are
interested in.
1
2
3
4
5
6
Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the
planet
This section contains information on five unique incidents that we detected in different parts of
the world. Each incident is a unique case within the specific country and industry, and we provide a
description of the actions and TTPs of the perpetrators. At the end of each section, we put together a
consolidated table showing the TTPs of the APT groups that we encountered in these incidents. This
table consists of a list of TTPs and their overlapping use in these incidents.
Technical details
The "Technical details" section contains a detailed description of the individual techniques that we
detected in the attacks conducted by Asian APT groups. Each technique contains the following:
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
We used the Unified Kill Chain model to create our own table linked to Asian APT groups so that we
could provide a top-level look into the motivations and behavioral patterns of these actors, and provide
data on the possible steps taken by Asian APT groups when they conduct potential attacks.
Mitigation
This section describes the measures undertaken to mitigate risks associated with the described TTPs.
Statistics on attack victims
This section provides consolidated statistics on the victims of Asian APT groups throughout the world
and a breakdown by country and industry.
Appendix: SIGMA
This appendix contains the SIGMA rules that can help to detect the techniques described in this
report.
Main
description
Technical details on how
the specific technique
works
Examples of
procedures
Example implementations
of this technique that we
detected in attacks by
Asian APT groups
Detection
Data on the approaches
employed to detect the
described technique, and
the EventIDs of events in
various monitoring agents
used to detect the specific
threat.
SIGMA rules
List of SIGMA rules relevant
to this technique. The
actual SIGMA rules can
be found in the Appendix:
SIGMA
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the planet
Contents 7