Attribution
https://marcoramilli.com/2019/11/04/is-lazarus-apt38-targeting-critical-infrastructures/ 4/7
12/17/2019 Is Lazarus/APT38 Targeting Critical Infrastructures ? – Marco Ramilli Web Corner
Attribution is always a very hard and challenging section in Malware Analyses. The analyzed
sample is very close to what Kaspersky defined as DTrack in HERE. Two main strong similarities
to DTrack took me to believe we are facing an initial information gathering stage powered by a
customized DTrack Malware. Two of the main similarities are the following ones:
Initial Sample in-Memory Manipulation stage between OE (Original Entry Point) and
WinMain function.
String Manipulation function looking for “CCS_”.
The following image shows the strong similarities between the string preparation function
available on address 0x8BB041. On the left side the analyzed sample while on the right side a
screen coming from Kaspersky analysis ( published on securelist)
Similarities with DTrack
Both samples look for “CCS_” string and manipulate it in the same way. However DTrack is
historically related to Lazarus / APT38 group, a threat organization also known as Hidden Cobra
and attributed (by FireEye) to North-Corea state which actually is used to target -at least in the
past months- financial institutions. The group has been active since at least 2009 and was
reportedly responsible for the November 2014 destructive wiper attack against Sony Pictures
Entertainment as part of a campaign named Operation Blockbuster by Novetta (from MITRE).
APT38 is not well-known for attacking critical infrastructures, moreover DTrack is a well-known
Malware distributed over ATM, in order to attack financial institutions all over the world. However
the attack phase is actually aligned with Lazarus modus-operandi as reported in the FireEye
document (HERE) Figure 5 page 16.
As a matter of fact, Lazarus is used to initiate a separate phase of Information Gathering before
the real attack takes place. If you focus on target, it’s known that Lazarous attacks financial
institution but they performed destruction attacks in the past years (such as wiping Sony
Entertainment) as well as gov-based attacks (such as the Komisja Nadzoru Finansowego, or KNF
attack). At that point every reader would ask: “Is it APT38 moving their targets to critical
infrastructure or are we experiencing a well crafted false flag ? ” Hard to answer with scientific
https://marcoramilli.com/2019/11/04/is-lazarus-apt38-targeting-critical-infrastructures/ 5/7
12/17/2019 Is Lazarus/APT38 Targeting Critical Infrastructures ? – Marco Ramilli Web Corner
precision, in my personal opinion it’s going to be an open question for at least few time, but if I
had to bet on, I would probably bet on Lazarus that they are adding to their attack plan more
strategic targets like Nuclear Plants.