Fourth Vector – Social Networks imperonation
In our previous report about Charming Kitten, we have discovered that they are impersonating
security teams of social networks in order to get authentication factors. Unlike the previous cases, this
group has acted mostly against email boxes. In the group's activity since July-August, we have
identified a shift towards social networks, such as Instagram.
As a part of our monitoring of suspicious activity, we have discovered this week that the group has
built additional phishing sites, pretending to be not only Instagram but also Facebook and Twitter. In
one of the sites of the infrastructure, discovered by us, w3-schools[.]org, we have found an open
directory at port 80 which contains files relevant for the deployment of different phishing sites.
Note that the domains that are presented in the directory are related to the impersonation subject
and not the malicious domain.
As seen from the picture, the first uploaded files were Facebook and Twitter impersonations.
Impersonations of Instagram, Google, and the National Iranian-American Council (and Iranian
organization sitting in the US), were uploaded later. At every such site directory, there is a ZIP file with
a ready infrastructure for a phishing site:
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 12 of 19
As it reads from the ZIP files, the attackers prepare their phishing sites with WordPress and
CrunchPress interfaces. Every folder contains relevant files, such as logos, persons to impersonate (for
instance, one Nooshin Sadegh-Samimi [5], and Iranian who has joined NAIC in February 2019 and works
as an organizing fellow) etc.
5 https://www.niacouncil.org/about-niac/staff-board/nooshin-sadegh-samimi/
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 13 of 19
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 14 of 19