Introduction
PT Expert Security Center (PT ESC) specialists regularly track the activity of hacker groups and the emergence of new information security threats (threat intelligence). During such monitoring in April 2021, a mailing list with
previously unknown malicious content was sent to Mongolia. Some of the files found during the study had rather interesting names ("хавсралт.scr" ["havsralt.scr"] (mong. attachment),
"Информация_Рб_июнь_2021_года_2021062826109.exe") and, as the study showed, they contained a remote access trojan (RAT). Similar attacks were subsequently identified in Russia, Belarus, Canada, and the United
States. According to PT ESC threat intelligence analysts, from January to July 2021, approximately 10 attacks were carried out using the discovered malware samples. A detailed analysis of malware samples, data on the paths
on which working directories and registry keys were located, techniques and mechanisms used by the attackers (from the injection of malicious code to the logical blocks and structures used) helped correlate this malware with
the activity of the APT31 group.
This group, also known as Judgment Panda (CrowdStrike) and Zirconium (Microsoft), has been active since at least 2016. The group is presumed to be of Chinese origin, providing data to the Chinese government and stateowned enterprises to achieve political, economic, and military advantages. Cyberespionage is of key interest. The attackers' targets include the government sector, aerospace and defense enterprises, as well as international
financial companies and the high-tech sector. In different years, the group's victims have included the government of Finland and, it is presumed, the governments of Norway and Germany too. The group also attacked
organizations and individuals close to U.S. presidential candidates during the 2020 campaign. Recent attacks on companies in France, involving the hacking of home and office routers, have also been linked with the group.
In this article, we will study the malware created by the group, focus in more detail on the types of droppers discovered and the tricks used by its developers. We will also present the criteria on the basis of which the attacks
were attributed.