~~STATISTICS~~
The command-and-control servers maintain full logs of the victims together with the various
operations performed on them by the C&C operators. These logs are encrypted with a simple XOR
operation and available to anyone who knows their location and name on the server. Here’s what a
decoded log looks like:
Sample C&C activity log
These logs can sometimes help to identify the targets of the attacks and in some cases, the victims.
During our research, we observed attacks against a number of targets in South Korea, Taiwan
and Japan. These include defense industry contractors such as Lig Nex1 and Selectron Industrial
Company, shipbuilding companies such as DSME Tech, Hanjin Heavy Industries, telecom operators
such as Korea Telecom, media companies such as Fuji TV and the Japan-China Economic Association.
Some organizations that the attackers were interested in targeting
33
INFECTION DATA AND STATISTICS
SINKHOLE INFORMATION
During our research, we managed to sinkhole 13 domains used by the attackers:


spekosoft.com


kechospital.com


unikorean.com


pasakosoft.net


chinauswatch.net


msvistastar.com


defenseasia.net


pinganw.org


kevinsw.net


avatime.net


shinebay.net


securimalware.net - used in spear-phishing attacks


appst0re.net - MacFog’s command-and-control


All of them have been redirected to the Kaspersky Sinkhole server at 95.211.172.143.
Overall, during the monitoring period, we observed connections from several victims, based in South
Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Germany and some other countries.
34
Infection data and statistics
For Windows based computers, we have the following statistics:
Distribution by number of hits in our sinkhole (percentage)
Distribution by number of hits in our sinkhole (absolute values)
35
.
36
INFECTION DATA AND STATISTICS
Distribution by number of IPs in our sinkhole (percentage)
Distribution by country by number of IPs in our sinkhole (percentage)
Infection data and statistics
For Macfog, the Mac OS X version of the backdoor, we have the following statistics:
Distribution by number of IPs in our sinkhole (percentage)
Distribution by number of IPs in our sinkhole (absolute values)
Overall, we’ve observed over 4500 IPs with infected Macfog hosts, belonging to more than 430
unique victims.
37
INFECTION DATA AND STATISTICS
For Windows-based machines, our sinkhole received connections from almost 200 unique IPs, in
six countries.
It should be noted that in terms of the overall picture, these sinkholed domains offer a view of only
a fraction of the infected computers, especially old infections which for some reason have not yet
been disinfected. The newer attacks are more difficult to track because they use new C&C domains
that can’t be easily sinkholed.
Another important note relates to geographical distribution of victims. While we see many
connections coming from China, this doesn’t mean that it has victims of targeted attacks. Because
the Macfog samples that we have seen are being distributed in a trojanized bundle with legitimate
software on publicly available Chinese message boards, visitors (especially those who read Chinese)
from any country in the world could get infected. We believe that a primary goal of doing that was
to test malware in different environments and evaluate its efficiency. That explains why the domain
used as C2 was abandoned - random victims had less value for the attackers.
Based on the more reliable analysis of the C&C servers used in the targeted attacks, spearphishing
examples and other data collected during our research, we believe that the primary targets of the
Icefog operations were in South Korea and Japan.
38
Attribution