How to kee ourself rotected p y p
One of the biggest problems when it comes to leveraging threat intelligence is judging
the quality of the data and how it can be used for defense. For instance, we may
observe an increase in the number of fileless attacks or attacks in which all IOCs are
unique or specific per victim. In such situations, having not only host-based IOCs, but
also network IOCs and Yara rules that can help identify malware in all cases is very
important.
Another problem comes from the fact that many threat intelligence providers have a
limited world view and their data covers only a small set of threats. It’s easy for an
enterprise to fall into the trap of thinking that ‘actor X’ is not something they need to
worry because their focus has been only certain countries or certain industry sectors;
only to discover later that their ignorance left them blind to those attacks.
As shown by many incidents, but especially by WannaCry and ExPetr’s EternalBluebased spreading subroutines, vulnerabilities remain a key approach to infecting
systems. Therefore timely patching is of utmost importance – which, being one of the
most tedious IT maintenance tasks, works much better with good automation.
Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business Advanced and Kaspersky Total Security
include Vulnerability & Patch management components, offering convenient tools for
making patching much easier, and much less time-consuming for IT staff.
Given the above, it is highly recommended that prevention (such as endpoint
protection) along with advanced detection capabilities, such as a solution that can
detect all types of anomalies and scrutinize suspicious files at a deeper level, be
present on users’ systems. The Kaspersky Anti Targeted Attack solution (KATA)
matches events coming from different infrastructure levels, discerns anomalies and
aggregates them into incidents, while also studying related artifacts in a safe
environment of a sandbox. As with most Kaspersky products, KATA is powered by
7/8
HuMachine Intelligence, which is backed by on premise and in lab-running machine
learning processes coupled with real-time analyst expertise and our understanding of
threat intelligence big data.
The best way to prevent attackers from finding and leveraging security holes, is to
eliminate the holes altogether, including those involving improper system
configurations or errors in proprietary applications. For this, Kaspersky Penetration
Testing and Application Security Assessment services can become a convenient and
highly effective solution, providing not only data on found vulnerabilities, but also
advising on how to fix it, further strengthening corporate security.
https://youtu.be/JS4tbSWQb90
8/8