Phishing as a guarantee of an effective cyberattack
Throughout its existence, the hacker group "Armageddon"
has successfully used the methods of social engineering,
especially sending to potential victims emails specially crafted
messages with malicious attachments. This remains the main
vector of cyberattack.
This approach does not require significant costs, and
information about the official mailing addresses of a government
agency, unit or an official can be found in open sources.
Thus, 2014-2016 are characterized by sending emails on
topics related to the Anti-Terrorist Operation (now the Joint
Forces Operation) in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, in
particular, on the movement of forces and means,
loss of personnel and military equipment, facts of desertions,
analytical data on the activities of units of the security and
defense sector of Ukraine. The targets were, respectively, military
personnel of the security and defense sector of Ukraine,
representatives of law enforcement agencies and other
individuals who were involved in the Anti-Terrorist Operation/the
Joint Forces Operation.
Subsequently, in 2017-2019, due to the partial cessation of
active hostilities, the emphasis was shifted towards lure
documents on criminal proceedings, international cooperation,
draft legislation, with a simultaneous reorientation to users of the
central offices of the security and defense sector of Ukraine
(Figures 1 and 2).
Figure 1. A Phishing email sample
A simple method of putting pressure on the user was
applied in many e-mails so that an electronic attachment was
opened recklessly. The word "Urgent" was indicated in the title
and/or text of the message, which was to force the employee to
review the contents immediately and start the system infecting
process accordingly.
From 2019 to the present day, almost half of such e-mails
have been allegedly sent on behalf of state bodies, international
organizations and individuals, and the lure documents became
requests for information, international and internal official
correspondence letters of Ukrainian state bodies. At this stage,
Armageddon is trying to expand its presence and carry out its
cyberattacks on information systems of employees of central
executive bodies in particular.
Figures 2. One more phishing email sample
According to the phishing e-mail samples analysis results,
the systematic facts of real recipients replacement is worth
noting. Usually, the field "address from" indicates the data
(primarily the domain name) that corresponds to a real
government agency, in particular, from which the recipient can
expect a message, including information materials
at the appropriate time. The subject of the letter, its content and
the title of the appendix reflect current information, which gives
the letter even more legitimacy. Thus, a specially formed fake
letter creates the illusion of credibility and encourages users to
read the contents of the attached documents without suspicion.
So, the opening of such applications by officials triggers the
mechanism of downloading malicious software and infecting the
information system.
It can be argued that special attention is focused on the
investigative units of law enforcement agencies, which have been
handling thousands of criminal cases since the beginning of the
Russian armed aggression against Ukraine.
In reality, the Armageddon group created numerous
mailboxes on the existing public services of Russia (@yandex.ru),
Ukraine (@i.ua), the Czech Republic (@popis.cz, @post.cz and
@email.cz), from which fake messages were actually sent. At the
same time, such mailboxes were used as a cover for sending
mails from pre-configured for this purpose mail servers, which
were located in Russia and on the territory temporarily not
controlled by Ukraine. The Security Service of Ukraine is aware of
the facts of sending fake e-mails with malicious software
from computers that used Russian IP-addresses (IpServer, IT
Expert providers), including the Crimean telecom provider
Crelcom (Simferopol).
The mailbox "lifetime" was usually no more than a month,
but there were some cases of sending fake messages from one
mail for a much longer period.
Figure 3. A phishing email sample with embedded hide pixel
A specific feature of the 2019 letters was the embedded
hidden pixel into their bodies, which was implemented due to the
capabilities of the HTML markup language (Figure 3). For
example:

At the same time, the minimal size parameters of the image
set up by the attackers and its placement on the screen do not
allow ordinary users to notice it. This feature allows hackers to
track users who have read the email but have not opened
the malicious attachment for unknown reasons.
So, the implementation of a cyberattack begins with sending
a phishing letter with a malicious attachment to a potential victim,
after the opening of which the mechanism of automatic
compromising of the computer system and creating
the preconditions for information leakage is launched.