WinMM
MD5 – Filename File Size Compilation date Linker version
c8c81cca4645e71213f2310cec6c277d %temp%\wuauc1t.exe
118,784 bytes 2012.11.01
00:53:49
6.0
WinMM is a full-featured, simple backdoor. Its first actions upon installation are to col­
lect user and system data and report them back to the C2 over http. It uses NetUser­
GetInfo to identify that it is running under an “Admin” account on the local system,
then retrieves the system name and the version of the operating system that is running,
including its service pack, and collects the system install date from the registry:
\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\
CurrentVersion\InstallDate
These values are built into a single string for reporting.
SslMM also maintains this code chunk and functionality but does not immediately
invoke it like winMM. Also interesting and different from sslMM, are the decoy Word
documents dropped by many of the winMM droppers. Images of these documents
are shown in the Appendix. The documents are all written and formatted with a spe­
cially developed Myanmar2 True Type font, demonstrating the focus on politicallyconnected, native Myanmar speakers as targets. This font is not delivered by default
with Microsoft Office. Instead, it must have been specifically installed by the attackers
and then by the victims, otherwise the documents would not have displayed properly.
The backdoor maintains multiple primitive functionalities.
Setting a WH_CBT Windows hook for full activity spying (sslMM does not maintain
this hooking functionality):
- File search and capture


- Process creation


- Keystroke capture

The backdoor is usually configured with primary and backup domains for C2
communications, although there are multiple known samples that maintain
an IP address or only a single domain for communications with no backup.
Communication is built to appear as though a web browser is simply making
a request to a remote web server. Some of these backdoors are configured
to use an unusual port for encrypted communications.
For full indicator and other details, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
The MsnMM Campaigns