Bitbucket repository
To minimize the footprint of the initial exploit, all elements that can be offloaded are
encapsulated in an encrypted and compressed custom binary archive. This archive is
discreetly hosted on legitimate websites, cleverly disguised as firmware binaries for
enigmatic devices labeled “m100”.
The Bitbucket repository was created on June 21, 2018, under the account of Julie
Heilman, and it remains the sole repository associated with this profile.
https://securelist.com/stripedfly-perennially-flying-under-the-radar/110903/ 4/15
1/16/24, 3:20 PM StripedFly: Perennially flying under the radar | Securelist
Bitbucket repository content
The repository houses only a README.md file with the project’s name inside. Notably,
the Downloads folder, which would normally contain compiled project binaries, contains
five binary files: delta.dat, delta.img, ota.dat, ota.img, and system.img .
https://securelist.com/stripedfly-perennially-flying-under-the-radar/110903/ 5/15
1/16/24, 3:20 PM StripedFly: Perennially flying under the radar | Securelist
Downloads folder of the repository
This folder lacks any versioning, and the download counter only reflects the number of
downloads since the last file update. In particular, the system.img file serves as the
authentic payload archive used for initial Windows system infections. The download
counter for this file accurately reflects the number of new infections since its last update.
During our analysis, the file was last updated on February 24, 2022, and the number of
initial infections stood at 160,000 victims as of June 2022. However, as of September
2023, the number had dropped to 60,000 since the last update in April 2023.
The files ota.img and delta.img are used to update the malware, where ota.img
corresponds to the Windows version and delta.img corresponds to the Linux version.
Interestingly, system.img and ota.img are functionally identical, although ota.img
includes supplementary metadata for integrity verification, while delta.img serves as the
initial infection payload for Linux hosts compromised via SSH by the Windows version.
The ota.dat and delta.dat files, along with the version files, serve as tools for the
malware to check for the availability of new updates. However, it’s worth noting that the
download counters for ota.img and delta.img do not accurately reflect the current
number of infected victims. This is because the malware primarily receives updates from
its C2 server, and only resorts to downloading update files from the repository when the
C2 server is unresponsive.
During our analysis, approximately one million updates were obtained from the repository.
At the time of writing, there were only eight updates for Windows systems and four for
Linux systems, suggesting one of two scenarios: either there are minimal active
infections, or the C2 server remains active and responsive to all infected victims.