Executive Summary
In a first, Agari has cataloged the evolution of a Nigerian
cybercriminal organization from its emergence as a one-man
shop into a powerful business email compromise (BEC) enterprise
employing dozens of threat actors.
BEC has continued to grow, taking the number one spot for greatest financial losses from
Internet crime. In a recent report, the FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) reported
that more than 20,000 businesses lost nearly $1.3 billion to BEC attacks in 2018. Globally, BEC
attacks have cost more than $13 billion in losses over the past five years.
But with the West African gang we’ve named Scattered Canary, we have a deeper look at how
business email compromise is connected to the rest of the cybercrime. With over ten years of
visibility into Scattered Canary’s operations, we have deep insight into how the group grew
from a single cybercriminal working Craigslist scams into an entire organization that consists of
dozens of criminals, each with specific tasks.
When the first member of Scattered Canary, who, for the purposes of this report, we call
Alpha, began his operations, he was a lone wolf—working mostly Craigslist scams as he learned
the tricks of the trade from a mentor. However, within a few years, he had honed his craft
enough to expand into romance scams, where he met his first “employee,” Beta. Once they
had secured enough mules via their romance scams to launder their stolen money, they shifted
from targeting individuals to targeting enterprises, and the group’s BEC operation was born.
Since its inception, at least 35 different actors have joined Scattered Canary in its fraudulent
schemes. The group has turned to a scalable model through which they can run multiple types
of scams at the same time. And with multiple tools designed to help them expand their operations
and stay hidden from law enforcement, it is no wonder that they are seeing massive success.
While BEC remains a favorite due to its ease and success, a look into Scattered Canary’s
operations demonstrates that these groups are not one-trick ponies. At any given time,
Scattered Canary is involved in a number of different types of scams simultaneously—including
romance scams, tax fraud, social security fraud, employment scams, and more. And this is only
one organization, out of the hundreds currently residing in West Africa and around the world.
With this much involvement between members, and so much connection between crime type,
we must look at the bigger picture to truly understand the enormity of the cybercrime problem.
If Scattered Canary can be seen as a microcosm for the rapidly evolving organizations behind
today’s most pernicious email scams, this report demonstrates that a much more holistic
approach—one based on threat actor identity rather than type of fraudulent activity—is
required to detect email fraud and protect organizations.
2