Assets and vulnerabilities
Critical assets
Significant research and analysis have focused on
developing models aimed at helping organizations identify,
measure and monitor the criticality of their assets. These
models, such as the NIST IR 8179 (Criticality Analysis
Process Model), are aimed at helping organizations better
identify, understand and protect their assets.
This approach focuses on not only the asset’s criticality to
business operations but also the potential damage/impact of
the loss of the asset. However, many such analytical models
tend to view assets through a single lens and don’t necessarily
assess them through the prism of Cyber-Espionage.
This nuance is particularly important when two factors are
considered. First, while the overall significance of CyberEspionage as a whole is relatively low and appears to be
decreasing (as indicated in the 2020 DBIR), a by-industry
breakdown reveals a more nuanced picture.
Reported instances of Cyber-Espionage breaches
have been concentrated in certain industries (such as
Manufacturing, Mining + Utilities and Public), while other
industries (Construction, Real Estate) reported none at all
(note that this doesn’t necessarily mean none occurred
or that there is no risk for those particular industries, just
that none were reported where we had visibility). This
implies that any organization’s critical asset/sensitive data
management strategy may need to adjust to the CyberEspionage risk associated with their particular vertical.
It’s reasonable to assume that the overall Cyber-Espionage
rate suffers from chronic underreporting. Other motivations
(i.e., Financial) lend themselves toward having a more clearly
identifiable end state. Cyber-Espionage, on the other hand,
can potentially be associated with longer attack timelines
and potentially unending exploitation.
In self-assessing critical assets and sensitive data,
organizations need to ensure that their assessment criteria
account for the possibility of Cyber-Espionage. Specifically,
their model should address:


Overall Cyber-Espionage risk


Assets/data susceptible to Cyber-Espionage


Safeguards and monitoring to alert on


Cyber-Espionage attacks

Preventative measures for Cyber-Espionage, such as:

a. Continuous critical asset/sensitive data identification,
protection and monitoring
b. Cyber threat intelligence/dark web research/
threat hunting
c. Insider Threat Program
d. Competitive landscape awareness (i.e., unexpected loss
of competitive advantage)
Figure #26: Vulnerability exploitation over time in breaches
Zero-day vulnerability exploits—those security weaknesses
not disclosed to vendors or developers—make tackling
vulnerabilities even harder for impacted organizations. More
often than not, the exploitation of such vulnerabilities doesn’t
leave credible evidence on the system (although there may
be some circumstantial evidence left somewhere else).
There were times when zero-day vulnerabilities were for
sale on the dark web. Due to recent enforcement actions by
some marketplace operators, the not-so-good researchers
have become less active and have possibly moved to other
avenues for financial gain and other motives. We’ve seen—
and continue to see—organized crime syndicates or nationstate and state-affiliated actors use zero-day vulnerabilities
to exploit systems for nefarious purposes.
It is important to realize that vulnerabilities are here to stay,
and the typical patch-cycle mentality cannot solve this
problem. A multilayered approach consisting of several
controls, such as robust risk management, use of strict
least-privilege principle, application whitelisting, threat
hunting and deception-based detection techniques, can
help protect against the invisible monster.
Targeted vulnerabilities
Vulnerabilities occupy a huge amount of mindshare in
information security. Security researchers, independent
hackers, nation-state actors, organized criminal groups,
customers and even employees discover thousands of
vulnerabilities every year (https://www.cvedetails.com/
browse-by-date.php).
Some discovered vulnerabilities are reported responsibly
and some (including their exploit code) are stashed away
for a multitude of reasons (most of which are nefarious in
nature). Most application software and firmware vendors
have established formal programs to release patches on a
periodic basis, or on an emergency basis depending on the
severity of the vulnerability.
Periodically, organizations discover scores of known
vulnerabilities within their infrastructure using typical
vulnerability scanning tools and patch them based on risk
assessment. However, threat actors leverage a relatively
small percentage of these vulnerabilities in breaches, as you
can see in the diagram below from the 2020 DBIR.
6%
4%
2%
0%
2015 2017 2019
17 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report