PART THREE: PRIMARY CAUSES
What are the primary causes of weak Indian Cyber Space?
Use of Outdated Software on Government Websites
Another interesting finding is the fact that many of the servers that host “gov.in” sites are running outdated
software versions.
As an example, from the above image, it is evident that the domain “karnataka.gov.in” is hosted on a server running
“Windows Server 2003”, on 22-June-2013. To confirm this, we ran an nmap scan & it’s not surprising to find out
that the information is true. The screenshot of our nmap scan is as follows:
While use of outdated software is one of the major concerns, it seems most of the Indian government sites are
riddled with vulnerable code too. It’s quite common to locate webshells on these sites.
Powered by Po Anti-virus from www.researchbundle.com
CERT-ISAC - India’s first independent CERT for mobile & electronic security
Webshells on Indian Websites
One of the many live webshells we found recently during our analysis is shown in the following image:
From the time-stamps on the above image, it’s evident that this is webshell is still active at the time of this this
writing. An example of a government site that’s not properly managed & discloses highly sensitive information is
as follows:
Powered by Po Anti-virus from www.researchbundle.com
CERT-ISAC - India’s first independent CERT for mobile & electronic security
The above screenshot is just one of the many live examples of poorly managed web servers that do not follow
even the most basic web application security guidelines. Even important government sites, access to which can
lead to much deeper intrusion seem to be managed with little care. The following image is just one of the
examples of developing or customizing a CMS & not properly handling access-control.
While defacements are usually carried out by hackers just for fun or fame, in a way its a boon in disguise. Serious
hackers can cause much more damage & remain unnoticed for a very long time by having access to the
privileges these hackers abuse to deface the site. Slowly but steadily, serious APT campaigns are on the rise. Its
very important for the nation to start upgrading its IT infrastructure & keep up with the latest security guidelines
& practices. The next part of this research paper focuses on a recent APT campaign against multiple countries
including India was targeted.
While each and every technical cause for weak Indian Cyber space is beyond the scope of this document, we also
believe that India requires a strong policy driven approach along with inspiring leadership from thought leaders
and Government departments in Information security to bring the much needed change.
Powered by Po Anti-virus from www.researchbundle.com
CERT-ISAC - India’s first independent CERT for mobile & electronic security