New 2021 TTPs
In 2021, the Security Service of Ukraine revealed the facts
of uploading files from the legitimate PSTOOLS set to the victims'
systems and attempts to run the PSEXEC utility to execute
commands on remote workstations.
All this happened in systems where we observed elements
of running files that correspond to mimikatz for Windows - the
most common means of intercepting open sessions in Windows,
which allows you to extract the authentication data of users who
are logged in.
Given the obtaining the credential of network administrators
and users, the efforts of Armageddon members to advance within
the network and provide control over other workstations as well
as server equipment are obvious.
Another aspect of the Armageddon’ progress is to ensure a
permanent presence in the system with the minimization of
malicious files on the hard drive. In this case, the capacity of the
registry and task scheduler is used (Figure 14).
Thus, the scheduler creates a task to receive and execute a
set of commands from the system registry.
Figure 14. Registry values
41 keys with data parts are created in the registry branch
HKEY_USERS\"USER"\Enviroment\userData1…userData41 .
During the operation of the malware, this data is
concatenated and a malicious process is started on the
compromised system.
The malicious code is used to collect information about the
victim's system (computer name and serial numbers of hard
drives), which is sent to the attacker's command & control server.
If the connection is successful, the response will result in
another malicious code encrypted in base64, which is
immediately decrypted and executed without creating a file in the
user's system.
In this way, attackers create the conditions to minimize
detection by cybersecurity tools and provide the ability to deliver
various malicious codes.
At the same time, infected Normal.dotm template files were
found on the affected computers, which contained malicious links
to download macro files from command & control servers.
C:\Users...\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Шаблоны\Normal.dotm
The Normal.dotm file opens with the launch of MS Word,
contains a customized set of user parameters that are
responsible for the basic settings of documents (fields, styles,
font size, etc.). All these parameters will be stored in other
documents that will be created on their basis in the future,
regardless of the users and computer equipment that will prepare
them.
Thus, each new electronic document created on the
affected system in MS Word contains code for connecting to C2
and downloading files with a set of malicious macros, the
execution of which triggers the mechanism of compromising the
information system.
The exchange of such electronic documents actually
creates a technical channel for the distribution of malware
through trusted sources.