CULTURAL FIGURES
Iran-originating spearphishing campaigns have also targeted Iranian cultural figures—including artists, musicians, comedians, cartoonists, and satirists—regardless of whether
they reside in Iran or abroad.
These campaigns have included the targeting and compromise of social media and email
accounts for the Germany-based musician Shahin Najafi, multiple pop stars that left Iran
after the Islamic Revolution, a Persian-Israeli singer, and an Iranian-born female metal
musician based in the United States, among others. There have also been intrusions into
devices and accounts associated with less prominent underground artists inside Iran and
networks of fictitious social network profiles connected with Iranian death metal rock
bands and hip-hop groups. These themes of targeting famous pop musicians and their
staff—both inside Iran and abroad—are recurrent and do not focus solely on individuals
critical of the establishment.
Iranian security forces have publicly acknowledged their operations to identify individuals
involved in “immoral behavior” online. In January 2016, several Iranian fashion models
popular on social media were arrested for their activities online and forced to delete their
accounts, an effort labeled by the IRGC as Operation Spider. At the same time, the arrests
of employees of the foreign-based AAA Music television channel led to their social media
accounts being defaced with a message, purportedly from the Ministry of Intelligence,
about the illegality of the network. In interviews with and public statements by those
rounded up in Operation Spider, these individuals were commonly operating openly, and
the defacements were conducted after they were forced to hand over passwords.
Operation Spider was not the first of its kind: the activities of Flying Kitten suggest an
earlier interest in surveillance of the Iranian fashion industry. [126] In early 2014, the threat
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    45
actor compromised the computer of a social media model that was popular for portraying a fashionable lifestyle without wearing the state-mandated hijab. [127] After the intrusion she retreated offline, stopped logging on to modeling sites, and deleted her Facebook
account. Her image was also appropriated for further operations against other communities. The opaque nature of campaigns such as Operation Spider obscures how Iranian
authorities track down people like online models. However, incidents such as the Flying
Kitten compromise and the infiltration of LGBT-support networks and sex worker social
media communities by others suggest a relationship between both efforts.