1. Overview
Turla is one of the longest-known state-sponsored cyberespionage groups, with well-known victims
such as the US Department of Defense in 2008. The group owns a large toolset [1] [2] that is generally
divided into several categories: the most advanced malware is only deployed on machines that are
the most interesting to the attackers. Their espionage platform is mainly used against Windows
machines, but also against macOS and Linux machines with various backdoors and a rootkit.
For years, Turla has relied, among other impersonations, on fake Flash installers to compromise
victims. This kind of attack vector does not require highly sophisticated exploits but rather depends
on tricking the user into installing the fake program.
In recent months, we have observed a strange, new behavior, leading to compromise by one of Turla’s
backdoors. Not only is it packaged with the real Flash installer, but it also appears to be downloaded
from adobe.com. From the endpoint’s perspective, the remote IP address belongs to Akamai,
the official Content Delivery Network (CDN) used by Adobe to distribute their legitimate Flash
installer. After digging a bit more, we realized that the fake Flash installers, including the macOS
installer for Turla’s backdoor Snake — whether or not they were downloaded from adobe.com URLs
— were performing a GET request to get.adobe.com URLs to exfiltrate some sensitive information
about the newly compromised machine. Again, according to our telemetry, the IP address was
a legitimate IP address used by Adobe. In this whitepaper, we will explain the different possibilities
that could lead to such malicious behavior. To our knowledge, this malware did not utilize any legitimate
Flash Player updates nor is it associated with any known Adobe product vulnerabilities. We can state
with confidence that Adobe was not compromised. These attackers merely use the Adobe brand
to trick users into downloading the malware.
We also found that the Turla group relied on a web app hosted on Google Apps Script as a Command
and Control (C&C) server for JavaScript-based malware dropped by some versions of the fake Flash
installer. Thus, it is clear they are trying to be as stealthy as possible by hiding in the network traffic
of the targeted organizations.
By looking at our telemetry, we found evidence that Turla installers were exfiltrating information
to get.adobe.com URLs since at least July 2016. The victims are located in territories of the former
USSR. As for Gazer, another malware family developed and distributed by the Turla group and previously
described by ESET [2], the targets are mainly consulates and embassies from different countries
in Eastern Europe or the vicinity. We have also seen a few private companies infected but they do
not seem to be Turla’s main targets. Thus, it seems this campaign is directed against high-value
political organizations. Finally, some of the victims are also infected with other Turla-related
malware such as ComRAT or Gazer.
5