Online casinos
The activities of online casinos are regulated by Russian Federal
Law No. 244-FZ of December 29, 2006 “On the State Regulation
of Activities Involving the Organization and Conduct of Gambling
and on the Introduction of Amendments to Certain Legislative
Acts of the Russian Federation.”
Requirements for gambling game organizers are laid down in Article
6. For instance, only legal entities duly registered according to the
established procedure within the territory of the Russian Federation can organize gambling games. In turn, only legal entities that
are part of a self-regulatory organization of gambling game organizers at bookmakers or a self-regulatory organization of gambling
game organizers at betting houses can organize gambling games
at bookmakers or betting houses.
Article 5 of this law sets out restrictions on organizing and conducting gambling games, including a ban on such activity when
it involves information and telecommunications networks, including
the Internet, and also when it involves means of communication,
including mobile communication (with the exception of instances
of accepting interactive bets and payouts on them by organizers
of gambling games at bookmakers and (or) betting houses).
Failure to comply with the above requirements incurs various types
of liability.
Article 171.2 of the Russian Criminal Code provides for criminal
liability for natural persons who illegally organize and conduct gambling games, including by using information and telecommunications networks, including the Internet, or means of communication.
Under Article 14.1.1, paragraph 1, the same actions carried out
by legal entities incur administrative liability and are punishable
by a fine between 800,000 rubles ($11,350) and 1.5 million rubles
($21,300), including confiscation of the gaming equipment.
In addition, gambling websites may be subject to restriction
of access within the territory of the Russian Federation.
According to paragraph 1 of the Regulation No. 228 of the
Government of the Russian Federation of March 16, 2009 “On the
Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information
Technology, and Mass Media,” Roskomnadzor is an executive body
that supervises the media, mass communication, information
technology, and communications.
As such, Roskomnadzor takes measures to restrict access
to websites that contain information whose distribution in Russia
is prohibited according to the procedure established in Article
15.1 of Russian Federal Law No. 149-FZ “On Information, Information Technologies, and Protection of Information.”
In particular, paragraph 5 of this Article allows for non-judicial
restriction of access to information that violates Russian Federal
Law No. 244-FZ of December 29, 2006 “On the State Regulation
of Activities Involving the Organization and Conduct of Gambling
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Legal information 65
Games and on the Introduction of Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation” and Russian Federal Law
No. 138-FZ of November 11, 2003 “On Lotteries,” which bans the
organization and conduct of gambling games and lotteries that
involve the Internet and other means of communication.
Pursuant to subparagraph a) of paragraph 5 of Decision-making
rules for federal executive bodies authorized by the Government
of the Russian Federation in relation to certain types of information and materials distributed through the Internet whose distribution in the Russian Federation is prohibited (approved by Russian
Government Decree No. 1101 of October 26, 2012 “On the Uniform
Automated Information System the Unified Register of Domain
Names and Website References on the Internet), the basis for
including domain names and website references related to gambling in the Unified Register of prohibited information is a decision
of the Russian Federal Tax Service.
The information and material assessment criteria necessary for
making such a decision are approved by Order No. 84/292/351/
MMV-7-2/461S of May 18, 2017 by Roskomnadzor, Russian Ministry
of Internal Affairs, the Federal Service for Surveillance on Consumer Rights Protection and Human Wellbeing (Rospotrebnadzor),
and the Russian Federal Tax Service.
These criteria are:


The existence of photo, video, audio and/or textual and graphic
information encouraging to take part in a gambling game or lottery that is conducive to attracting the attention of a potential participant on a website where it is possible to take part
in a gambling game or lottery, make bets, and receive payouts
for winning.


The existence of photo, video, audio and/or textual and graphic
information that provides an understanding of a gambling game
or lottery; terms and conditions for taking part in a gambling
game or lottery, including rules of conducting gambling games
and terms and conditions for participating in lotteries; potential prizes; description of ways of transferring money to participate in a gambling game or lottery; and ways of receiving
prizes on a given website where it is possible to take part
in a gambling game or lottery, make bets, and receive payouts
for winning.


The existence of a demonstration of taking part in a gambling game or lottery, with descriptions of the process and
sequence of actions in a gambling game or lottery involving
photo, video, audio, or images on a website where it is possible to take part in a gambling game or lottery, make bets, and
receive payouts for winning.


The possibility of taking part in a gambling game or lottery
on a website.


The possibility of transferring money (including electronic
money) using electronic means of payment to participate
in a gambling game or lottery, as well as a possibility of receiving
(providing) a prize on a website.


Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Legal information 66


The existence of a notice or information about the possibility of taking part in a gambling game or lottery using other
domain names and (or) website references on the Internet
on a website.


The existence of information and/or) computer programs
on a website that make it possible to access a website or website page that contains forbidden information that meets the
criteria specified in the paragraphs above.


The possibility of loading computer programs on a website
or website page that make it possible to take part in a gambling
game or lottery.

