Command & Control
The malware communicates with the Naver email platform in order to communicate with the
operator. The credentials are hardcoded in the sample:
Convert webpages or entire websites to PDF - PDFmyURL!
Convert webpages or entire websites to PDF - PDFmyURL!
The broken communication was due to protection implemented by Naver. The malware was
presumably executed from too many different countries, and the account is currently locked:
The password must be reset by providing information on the account, or with a mobile phone of the
owner (the phone number is located in the UK) In its current status NavRAT cannot work correctly
Convert webpages or entire websites to PDF - PDFmyURL!
owner (the phone number is located in the UK). In its current status, NavRAT cannot work correctly.
We assume that the owner of the malware didn't know that Naver implemented this protection.
NavRAT is able to download and execute files located in the attachment of a received email. It is
able to remove emails, and finally, it is able to send an email via the Naver account. In our sample,
the data is attempted to be sent to: chioekang59@daum[.]net.
Convert webpages or entire websites to PDF - PDFmyURL!
Convert webpages or entire websites to PDF - PDFmyURL!
j y
right down to the number of instructions used, the amount of NOP (No Operations) and almost
identical command layout. (On the left is NavRAT, and on the right is the shellcode of ROKRAT):
We performed the same analysis for the shellcode located in the downloaded image file and the
shellcode is not exactly the same, but the design is very similar.
Additionally, we can add the victimology and usage of a public cloud platform as C2 server. The
attacker simply moved from Yandex, Pcloud, Mediafire, Twitter, and now they are using Naver. This
platform is mainly used locally in South Korea. A connection to this platform cannot be identified as
a malicious activity. The malicious traffic will be hidden in the global flow.
Due to all these elements, we asses with medium confidence that NavRAT and this campaign can
be linked to Group123. The malware developer is probably a different person within Group123's
ki b h i f i f k d h i d h Wh T l
Convert webpages or entire websites to PDF - PDFmyURL!
working team, but the infection framework and the operating mode are the same. When Talos
published on Olympic Destroyer we were able to see a lot of false flags used. When we look at
NavRAT we do not see this intentional and less vague level of IOC/False Flag scenarios in an
attempt to infer attribution to another entity. NavRAT lacks these non-obvious false flags and thus
we do not believe this to be related to non Group123 actors.