Initial access
BISMUTH attempted to gain initial access by sending specially crafted malicious emails from
a Gmail account that appears to have been made specifically for this campaign. It’s likely the
group conducted reconnaissance using publicly available sources and chose individual
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-heres-how-to-spot-them/ 2/8
12/1/2020 Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them - Microsoft Security
targets based on their job function. Each email was sent to only one recipient at each target
organization and used tailored subject lines and lure themes, for example:
Dự thảo hợp đồng (translates from Vietnamese to “Draft Contract”)
Ứng tuyển – Trưởng ban nghiên cứu thị trường (translates from Vietnamese to
“Application form – Head of Market Research”)
Of note, the group sent several replies to one of these emails, which indicated that they
corresponded with some targets before convincing them to open the malicious document
attachment and inadvertently launch the payload. When opened, the malicious .doc file
dropped several files in the hidden ProgramData folder: (1) MpSvc.dll, a malicious DLL with
the same name as a legitimate Microsoft Defender Antivirus DLL, and (2) a copy
of MsMpEng.exe the legitimate Microsoft Defender Antivirus executable.
The malicious document then added a scheduled task that launched the MsMpEng.exe copy
and sideloaded the malicious MpSvc.dll . Because the latest versions of Microsoft Defender
Antivirus are no longer susceptible to DLL sideloading, BISMUTH used an older copy to load
the malicious DLL and establish a persistent command-and-control (C2) channel to the
compromised device and consequently the network.
Using the newly established channel, the group dropped several files for the next stages of
the attack, including a .7z archive, a copy of Word 2007, and another DLL, wwlib.dll . While
it used the same name as a legitimate Microsoft Word DLL, wwlib.dll was a copy of
KerrDown, a family of custom malware exclusive to BISMUTH. This file was subsequently
sideloaded by the dropped copy of Word 2007—a technique used by BISMUTH extensively
to load malicious code from a DLL file in the context of a legitimate process
like winword.exe .
BISMUTH established another persistence method by dropping another copy of Word 2007
in a subfolder in ProgramData . The group then created a scheduled task that launched that
copy in the same malicious manner every 60 minutes – further increasing their chances of
going undetected and maintaining their presence.