The most remarkable findings
In December, SolarWinds, a well-known IT managed services provider, fell victim to a sophisticated supply-chain attack. The company’s
Orion IT, a solution for monitoring and managing customers’ IT infrastructure, was compromised. This resulted in the deployment of a
custom backdoor, named Sunburst, on the networks of more than 18,000 SolarWinds customers, including many large corporations and
government bodies, in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. In our initial report on Sunburst, we examined the method
used by the malware to communicate with its C2 (command-and-control) server and the protocol used to upgrade victims for further
exploitation. Further investigation of the Sunburst backdoor revealed several features that overlap with a previously identified backdoor
known as Kazuar, a .NET backdoor first reported in 2017 and tentatively linked to the Turla APT group. The shared features between
Sunburst and Kazuar include the victim UID generation algorithm, code similarities in the initial sleep algorithm and the extensive
usage of the FNV1a hash to obfuscate string comparisons. There are several possibilities: Sunburst may have been developed by the
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2021/101967/ 2/11
4/28/2021 APT trends report Q1 2021 | Securelist
same group as Kazuar; the developers of Sunburst may have adopted some ideas or code from Kazuar; both groups obtained their
malware from the same source; some Kazuar developers moved to another team, taking knowledge and tools with them; or the
developers of Sunburst introduced these links as a form of false flag. Hopefully, further analysis will make things clearer.
On March 2, Microsoft reported a new APT actor named HAFNIUM, exploiting four zero-days in Exchange Server in what they called
“limited and targeted attacks”. At the time, Microsoft claimed that, in addition to HAFNIUM, several other actors were exploiting them
as well. In parallel, Volexity also reported the same Exchange zero-days being in use in early 2021. According to Volexity’s telemetry,
some of the exploits in use are shared across several actors, besides the one Microsoft designates as HAFNIUM. Kaspersky telemetry
revealed a spike in exploitation attempts for these vulnerabilities following the public disclosure and patch from Microsoft. During the
first week of March, we identified approximately 1,400 unique servers that had been targeted, in which one or more of these
vulnerabilities were used to obtain initial access. Prior to the posts, on February 28, we identified related exploitation on less than a
dozen Exchange systems; we also found more than a dozen Exchange artefacts indicating exploitation uploaded to multi-scanner
services. According to our telemetry, most exploitation attempts were observed for servers in Europe and the United States. Some of the
servers were targeted multiple times by what appear to be different threat actors (based on the command execution patterns),
suggesting the exploits are now available to multiple groups.
We have also discovered a campaign active since mid-March targeting governmental entities in the Russian Federation, using the
aforementioned Exchange zero-day exploits. This campaign made use of a previously unknown malware family we dubbed FourteenHi.
Further investigation revealed traces of activity involving variants of this malware dating back a year. We also found some overlaps in
these sets of activities with HAFNIUM in terms of infrastructure and TTPs as well as the use of ShadowPad malware during the same
timeframe.