R ESPOND
Several Enterprise products have the capability to scan for and potentially remove the Aurora malware. Detection of the
malware is covered in detail, from multiple aspects, in the Detect section above. When using a Digital DNA(tm) capable
platform such as McAfee ePO, Guidance EnCase Enterprise, or Verdasys Digital Guardian, you can search the Enterprise
for the following Digital DNA sequence (recommend a tight match, 90% or higher).
Digital DNA Sequence for Aurora Malware
01 B4 EE 00 AE DA 00 8C 16 00 89 22 00 46 73 00 C6 49 00 0B AE 01 E7 9F 04 05 81
01 0E DF 01 79 D8 00 25 6A 00 15 49 00 47 22 00 4B 67 0F 2D CC 01 29 67 01 35 99
To thwart command and control and prevent data loss, known C&C domains should be blocked at the egress firewall.
The domains listed in the Detect section represent a significant set of those currently known to be operating. IDS
signatures similar to the one illustrated in the Detect section should be used to detect inbound exploit attempts, and
machines accepting this data should be scanned for potential infections. Many A/V products now contain signatures for
the Aurora exploit and will be effective in detection and removal. However, the attackers that represent the threat will
not be deterred, and variants of the attack are nearly assured.
Factors Description
C&C protocol If a variant is developed, it will very likely use the same C&C protocol, but
may change the header of the packet and the constants used for connection
setup. This will evade IDS / Firewall rules designed to detect the current
scheme. It is unlikely the attackers will change the encryption setup,
however.
Installation and Deployment The method used to install the service is highly effective. Although the
filenames will likely change, the actual method will likely remain.
I NOCULATION S HOT
HBGary has prepared an inoculation shot for this malware. The inoculation shot is a small, signed binary
that will allow you to scan for, and optionally remove, this malware from your Enterprise network.
Remediation and Prevention with the HBGary Inoculation Shot
The AuroraInnoculation.exe is a simple WMI-based utility for scanning windows-based machines for the presence of the Aurora APT malware package.
The aurora innoculator also has the option of automatically removing a discovered infection and rebooting the box automatically. When the aurora
innoculator is executed it will query the user for authentication credentials. Optionally the user can just hit "cancel" to use the currently logged on
USER's authentication token. Some sample usages are listed below.
To scan a single machine:
AuroraInnoculation.exe -scan 192.168.0.1 or AuroraInnoculation.exe -scan MYBOXNAME
To scan multiple machines:
AuroraInnoculation.exe -range 192.168.0.1 192.168.0.254
To automatically attempt a clean operation:
AuroraInnoculation.exe -range 192.168.0.1 192.168.0.254 -clean
To scan a list of machines in a .txt file:
AuroraInnoculation.exe -list targets.txt
V ERDASYS D IGITAL G UARDIAN
DG Agents can be used to remediate and prevent further infections within the enterprise without waiting for the
development of an AV signature. In this case:
Remediation and Prevention with Digital Guardian
A DGUpdate package can be deployed to all agents to perform the file and registry key delete operations to inactivate and remove the malware.


Several control rules can be added to prevent the Aurora malware infection specifically and to generically block other infection vectors:


Prevent network operations on remote port 443 if the current process image was launched from %%APPDATA% and registry keys exist in
“HKLM\Software\Sun\1.1.2\IsoTp” or “HKLM\Software\Sun\1.1.2\AppleTlk“ or “SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows
NT\CurrentVersion\SvcHost\SysIns”


Prevent iexplore.exe from writing files with .exe extensions


Prevent files with .exe extensions from being written, copied, moved or renamed into the root of %APPDATA%


Prevent files with .exe extensions from launching in the root of %APPDATA%


Prevent network operations to demo1.ftpaccess.cc


Prevent executables launched from the root of %APPDATA% from performing file open on kernel32.dll


Prevent executables launched from the root of %APPDATA% from writing, copying, moving or renaming files with a .dll extension to
%SystemRoot%\system32

