C
hina’s incremental yet determined march into the South China Sea is clearly underway. These overt efforts
by multiple pillars of Chinese national power are an outward manifestation of their intent to influence and
control regional interests. However, operations occurring in the shadows are equally important to what we see
conventionally. All of China’s activities in the South China Sea, whether military, diplomatic, or economic, have been
long supported by a well-resourced covert signals intelligence and digital exploitation unit that maintained deep
access within China’s Southeast Asian neighbors’ public and private sector enterprises.
China’s justification in leveraging the military grade signals intelligence Unit 78020 for these operations goes far
beyond exploiting countless enterprise networks to acquire proprietary data. Unit 78020’s network intrusions are
just a ways to a means, and the greensky27.vcip.net infrastructure analyzed in this report is just one small cog in the
machine. What is really at hand is a broader national objective of physically intruding into the 1.4 million square miles
that make up the South China Sea. It is likely that China does not view this behavior as criminal in nature, insofar as
it cannot be stealing if you already consider something to be yours. But the targets of this activity most certainly do
not share that view.
This aggressiveness clearly comes at an expense to China’s reputation regionally and internationally as credible proof
of these operations continues to mount. As this report adds its testimony to the trial, we expect – and have already
seen – a temporary cessation in greensky27.vcip.net activity and broader Naikon activities. What we do not expect to
see is any change in policy, rhetoric, or operations; China will undoubtedly continue their routine of blasé denials and
dismissals of all allegations. Such a position becomes harder to maintain, however, when one of their own – albeit
unwittingly – offers the incriminating evidence. We hope the evidences revealed in this report serve as a catalyst for
greater awareness and improved diplomacy within the South China Sea region and around the globe.
Takeaways for Intelligence Analysts
While the big picture of this report addresses regional and international affairs, our intent is to speak at a more tactical
level to the technical analysts who read it. A love of analysis is not only at the core of our DNA as a company, but has
deep personal roots as well. We enjoyed doing this analysis and hope that shows in the final product.
Our goal with this report is to demonstrate the merits of a comprehensive approach to intelligence that strongly
connects knowledge about an adversary with their capabilities, infrastructure, and target victims. In that sense, the
greensky27.vcip.net domain merely serves as a convenient example to make that case; we realize it’s only a small
shard in the tip of the Naikon iceberg. There are many public instances of single-dimensional analysis gone wrong,
and we offer the structure and rigor of pivoting around the Diamond Model for Intrusion Analysis as a counter to that.
Another takeaway for analysts, especially those newer to the field, is how a relatively small set of initial indicators can
(with the right platform and processes) be developed into a much larger body of intelligence.
Another takeaway for analysts, especially those newer to the field, is how
a relatively small set of initial indicators can (with the right platform and
processes) be developed into a much larger body of intelligence.
We began this analysis from a few open source reports and one domain referenced in a handful of malware samples.
And that brings up another key takeaway. The principles of science hold that useful research must be shared and
reproducible so that findings can be vetted by peers to advance the knowledge of the community. Those same
principles apply to threat research, and we commend all of you who hold to them.
Finally, if you enjoyed reading about this analysis, why not participate in expanding and enriching it? Log in or sign up
for a free ThreatConnect account to access intel referenced in this report and add findings from your own research.
Copyright © 2015 | ThreatConnect Inc. and Defense Group Inc. (DGI)
Takeaways for InfoSec Professionals
This report is first and foremost an intelligence product. But that does not mean it has no relevance to those living
“in the trenches” who have the difficult job of defending enterprise networks day in and day out. Intelligence that is
never operationalized is arguably not intelligence at all.
With respect to operational defensive efforts, the aim of this analysis is to showcase possibilities enabled through a
broad collection of human and technical intelligence. As stated in Chapter Two, we see limited value in the endless
game of IP whack-a-mole. Half of all IPs tied to greensky27.vcip.net were seen only once and a quarter of them
remained active for less than an hour. A much more efficient approach lies in creating diverse sets of associated
indicators along with established tactics, techniques, and procedures and leveraging smart automation to enable
them holistically through all layers of defense.
A much more efficient approach lies in creating diverse sets of associated
indicators along with established tactics, techniques, and procedures and
leveraging smart automation to enable them holistically through all layers
of defense.
On that note, we believe defensive “layers” matter. When approaching the task of stopping badness in your network,
many potential options exist. Some are inherently more efficient than others. As one example, the ability to block an
entire domain like greensky27.vcip.net as malicious at the DNS layer is much more effective and much less effort than
endless firewall rule changes to deny thousands of associated IPs added daily from all over the world.
Unit 78020’s tactic of leveraging current regional events in combination with malicious decoy documents demonstrates
that attacks against hardware and software often target wetware first. So, it’s key to defend at the human level first
and foremost. See this as an opportunity to educate all staff to recognize and respond to suspicious activity, files, and
incidents. Knowing that they target the vulnerable user over the vulnerable asset is especially critical during periods of
increased tensions, diplomatic summits, or other events of strategic interest to potential state or state-affiliated actors.
Takeaways for Business Leaders
Last but certainly not least, we’d like to offer some parting thoughts to the executives, decision makers, and managers
who invested their time to review this report – or to those who will brief them. ;)
The inherent unfairness of the security game should be plainly obvious from the scope of this investigation. Those
who still picture the adversary as hoodie-wearing teens crouched over a computer in their mom’s basement are
doing their organizations a disservice. In many cases, as evidenced in this document, the adversary thinks well
beyond even your “long-term” strategic plan and is far better resourced than your entire organization. That is not
meant as an insult, merely as fact to make the point that your security teams need consistent support from the top
to help level the playing field. Giving them that support in combination with sufficient resources to do their job is the
most important thing you can do to minimize risk to your organization.
Related to that, understanding the complex array of industry, regional, and international dynamics at play is critical to
properly assessing that risk. We hope this report demonstrates that the likelihood of being targeted may not merely be
a function of the sensitivity of your intellectual property. There are many socioeconomic and geopolitical factors that
drive exploitation campaigns, their impact to victim organizations, and far beyond. Savvy leaders will make every effort
to understand these factors in light of their business and take steps to mitigate them as best as possible. It would be
disingenuous of us not to recommend solid threat intelligence products like DGI’s BLUE HERON, PassiveTotal’s passive
DNS dataset, and powerful platforms like ThreatConnect as ways to help accomplish that.
Copyright © 2015 | ThreatConnect Inc. and Defense Group Inc. (DGI)