Notable Activity
1 “Syrian Electronic Army hacks several
websites, Forbes, Ferrari, Independent, Daily
Telegraph and many other websites hijacked”,
27 November 2014, http://www.techworm.
net/2014/11/syrian-electronic-army-hacks-several-websites-forbes-ferrari-independent-daily-telegraph-many-websites-hijacked.html
2 “Syrian Electronic Army hacks International
Business Times (IBT) for alleged false coverage
of Syria”, 18 December 2014, http://www.
techworm.net/2014/12/syrian-electronic-army-hacks-international-business-times.html
3 See “The Syrian Army is Shrinking, and
Assad is Running Out of Soldiers”,
17 December 2014, http://www.ibtimes.com/
syrian-army-shrinking-assadrunning-out-soldiers-1761914
significant attention from the press as well as law enforcement. LizardSquad
not only began claiming to be affiliates of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
(ISIS), but also called in a bomb threat, grounding a flight on which a Sony
Online Entertainment executive was a passenger. Though the group appears
to have no terrorist ties, their antics quickly gained them notoriety.
LizardSquad has even poorer operational security practices than
DerpTrolling, which allowed CrowdStrike to easily provide attribution on
possible members of the group. In addition, the group also admitted to
renting botnets and running booters, confirming that their skill level is
relatively low. Despite this, the threat they posed to gaming companies was
still noteworthy, especially when combined with terrorist threats; although
they were bluster, they still had considerable real-world consequences.
DEADEYE JACKAL: Far From Dead
Although DEADEYE JACKAL doesn’t have the kind
of coverage it once had in the media around its high
profile hacks, the group is still active. It still conducts the
occasional mass defacements and is focusing on improving
and strengthening its dissemination pathways, including migrating to more
private social media and adding a mobile site and Android app. DEADEYE
JACKAL even developed and released its own Linux-based operating
system, called SEANux, at the end of October 2014.
DEADEYE JACKAL continues its international censorship of online articles
that it deems detrimental to Syria or to Syrian President Bashar Assad. On
Thanksgiving, the group defaced just over 60 websites, including media
websites. [1] The websites were primarily from the United States and the United
Kingdom but also included Japan, Canada, the Philippines, New Zealand,
Mexico, and South Africa. A message on DEADEYE JACKAL’s Twitter
account showed possible motivations outside of opportunistic targeting,
saying “The press: Please don’t pretend #ISIS are civilians”.
The most recent cyber attack by DEADEYE JACKAL was on 18 December
2014, when the group hacked the website of the International Business
Times to remove an article due to its coverage of Syria, which DEADEYE
30