Initial infection vector
Both Diskcoder.C and Win32/Filecoder.AESNI.C used a supply-chain attack as the initial
infection vector. These malware families were spread using Ukrainian accounting software called
M.E.Doc.
There are several options for how this attack can be implemented. The M.E.Doc has an internal
messaging and document exchange system so attackers could send spearphishing messages to
victims. User interaction is required in order to execute something malicious in this way. Thus,
social engineering techniques would be involved. Since Win32/Filecoder.AESNI.C didn’t spread
so widely, we mistakenly assumed that these techniques were used in this case.
However, the subsequent Diskcoder.C outbreak suggests that the attackers had access to the
update server of the legitimate software. Using access to this server, attackers pushed a
malicious update that was applied automatically without user interaction. That’s why so many
systems in Ukraine were affected by this attack. However, it seems like the malware authors
underestimated the spreading capabilities of Diskcoder.C.
ESET researchers found evidence that supports this theory. Specifically, we identified a
malicious PHP backdoor that was deployed under medoc_online.php in one of the FTP
directories on M.E.Doc’s server. This backdoor was accessible from HTTP; however, it was
encrypted, so the attacker would have to have the password in order to use it.
Figure 11 – Listing of FTP directory containing the PHP backdoor.
We should say that there are signs that suggest that Diskcoder.C and Win32/Filecoder.AESNI.C
were not the only malware families that were deployed using that infection vector. We can
speculate that these malicious updates were deployed in a stealthy way to computer networks
that belong to high-value targets.
One such malware that was deployed via this possible compromised M.E.Doc update server
mechanism was the VBS backdoor used by the TeleBots group. This time the attacker again
used a financially-themed domain name: bankstat.kiev[.]ua .
On the day of the Diskcoder.C outbreak, the A-record of this domain was changed to 10.0.0.1