Overview
FireEye Threat Intelligence assesses with high confidence that APT41 is
a prolific cyber threat group that carries out Chinese state-sponsored
espionage activity in addition to financially motivated activity potentially
outside of state control. Activity traces back to 2012 when individual
members of APT41 conducted primarily financially motivated operations
focused on the video game industry before expanding into likely statesponsored activity. This is remarkable because explicit financially motivated
targeting is unusual among Chinese state-sponsored threat groups, and
evidence suggests these two motivations were balanced concurrently from
2014 onward.

APT41 is unique among tracked China-based actors in

that it leverages non-public malware typically reserved
for espionage operations in what appears to be activity
that falls outside the scope of state-sponsored missions.

Based on early observed activity, consistent behavior,

and APT41's unusual focus on the video game industry,
we believe the group's cyber crime activities are most
likely motivated by personal financial gain or hobbyist
interests.
This contrasts with the state-sponsored goals that likely
drive the group's healthcare, high-tech, and politically
related targeting.

We believe that APT41 is highly sophisticated and

innovative. Its history of financially motivated targeting
of the video game industry has ultimately supported the
group's state-sponsored activity.

The group's distinct use of supply chain compromises to

target select individuals, consistent use of compromised
digital certificates, and deployment of bootkits (rare
among APT operators), highlight a creative and wellresourced adversary.

Some of the early operations driven by personal gain

used techniques that would later be pivotal in executing
supply chain compromises.

Learning to access video game production environments

enabled APT41 to develop the tactics, techniques, and
procedures (TTPs) that were later leveraged against
software companies to inject malicious code into
software updates.
APT41 campaigns include most of the incidents previously
attributed in FireEye Threat Intelligence reporting to
GREF Team and a number of additional clusters that were
previously unnamed.
6 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION