Mirage
The April 2012 Mirage campaign targeted a high profile oil company in the Philippines, a
military organization in Taiwan, an energy company in Canada, and organizations in Brazil,
Israel, Egypt, and Nigeria. The Mirage attacks are attributed to the Chinese government or a
state sponsored threat actor. The campaign was investigated while advanced persistent threat
groups were still developing into their current structure; consequently, the campaign was not
investigated to the same level of detail as modern threats. The most distinct commonality
between victims was that all parties were involved in the contest for rights to survey natural gas
and oil in the South China Sea. It is believed that the intent of the campaign was to exfiltrate
confidential information, steal intellectual property, or to construct a botnet.
The actors began the campaign by targeting mid-level to senior-level executives with
spear phishing emails that contain malicious droppers that install the Mirage malware. The
droppers are disguised as PDF attachments. If opened, then the dropper is deployed and an
embedded PDF of a news story, relevant to the target, opens. The dropper contains a copy of
the Mirage malware, which executes and copies itself into either C:\ Documents or C:\
Windows. The copy starts and the original closes. The new Mirage establishes persistence in the
event of reboot by creating registry keys. The malware obfuscates its presence through the
creation of one or more files named svchost.exe, ernel32.dll, thumb.db, csrss.exe,
Reader_SL.exe, and MSN.exe. The malware profiles the system (MAC address, CPU speed,
memory size, system name, and user name) and sends the information back to the command
and control infrastructure via a HTTP request over ports 80, 443, and 8080. It can implement
SSL for added security. The first variant of Mirage communicated via a HTTP POST request and
it transferred information that was lightly encrypted by adding each character’s ASCII value to
its offset from the start of the payload. The second variant of the malware communicated
through HTTP GET requests and it encrypted data the same way as the former version except
that the payload of the initial request is encapsulated in a Base64-encoded string. The Mirage
toolkit consisted of a backdoor and a remote access trojan (RAT). At the time of its discovery in
2012, the command and control structure consisted of over 100 domains. By the end of 2012,
the Mirage campaign went dormant. However, some of its infrastructure reappeared in the
2015 Hellsing campaign.
20