Executive Summary
Cyberspace has become a full-blown war zone as governments across the globe clash for digital
supremacy in a new, mostly invisible theater of operations. Once limited to opportunistic criminals,
cyber attacks are becoming a key weapon for governments seeking to defend national sovereignty
and project national power.
From strategic cyber espionage campaigns, such as Moonlight Maze and Titan Rain, to the destructive,
such as military cyber strikes on Georgia and Iran, human and international conflicts are entering a new
phase in their long histories. In this shadowy battlefield, victories are fought with bits instead of bullets,
malware instead of militias, and botnets instead of bombs.
These covert assaults are largely unseen by the public. Unlike the wars of yesteryear, this cyber war
produces no dramatic images of exploding warheads, crumbled buildings, or fleeing civilians. But the
list of casualties—which already includes some of the biggest names in technology, financial services,
defense, and government —is growing larger by the day.
A cyber attack is best understood not as an end in itself, but as a potentially powerful means to a wide
variety of political, military, and economic goals.
“Serious cyber attacks are unlikely to be motiveless,” said Martin Libicki, Senior Scientist at RAND Corp.
“Countries carry them out to achieve certain ends, which tend to reflect their broader strategic goals.
The relationship between the means chosen and their goals will look rational and reasonable to them if
not necessarily to us.”
Just as each country has a unique political system, history, and culture, state-sponsored attacks also
have distinctive characteristics, which include everything from motivation to target to type of attack.
This report describes the unique characteristics of cyber attack campaigns waged by governments
worldwide. We hope that, armed with this knowledge, security professionals can better identify their
attackers and tailor their defenses accordingly.
Here is a quick overview:

Asia-Pacific. Home to large, bureaucratic hacker groups such as the “Comment Crew” who pursue

many goals and targets in high-frequency, brute-force attacks.

Russia/Eastern Europe. These cyber attacks are more technically advanced and highly effective

at evading detection.

Middle East. These hackers are dynamic, often using creativity, deception, and social engineering

to trick users into compromising their own computers.

United States. The most complex, targeted, and rigorously engineered cyber attack campaigns

to date.
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 2