Notable Activity
Criminal
Cybercrime Trends in 2014
2014 was an extremely active year for cybercrime.
Financial Trojans grew in both complexity and penetration.
Two major banking botnets – Gameover Zeus (GOZ)
and Shylock – dominated the first half of the year. Their
development focused on the ability to deliver complex
web injection scripts used to overcome two-factor
authentication and online banking security.
Two large, successful disruptions were mounted mid-year with CrowdStrike
assisting in a June takeover of GOZ (see the next section), and in Shylock being
taken down in July. For some time, this left a void in this space, but adversaries
were very quick to adapt. With many services that catered to GOZ and Shylock
still in operation, it was inevitable other botnets would step up to the plate.
CrowdStrike is now observing two new major contenders in this space:
Dyreza and Dridex, also known as Bugat. Dyreza takes a more simplistic
approach to banking fraud, acting to intercept logins and perform malicious
actions by acquiring the HTTP POST data from under banking SSL sessions.
Dridex uses the classic banking Trojan tactic of relying on complex JavaScript
web injects targeted at the institutions it wishes to steal from. Both threats
rely on the same criminal ecosystem as their predecessors.
Upatre, a loader previously used for delivering GOZ, is now being used to
deliver Dyreza, and known loaders such as Andromeda, Smoke Loader,
and Pony Loader continue to be developed in order to deliver these
primary payloads. The Cutwail and Pushdo botnets, previously tasked with
distributing loaders for GOZ, have since been retasked, and, alongside other
spamming botnets, are now delivering a number of phishing lures that
ultimately lead to the infection with persistent payloads. Dridex, for
example, favors Word documents with obfuscated macros. These macros,
if allowed to execute, will reach out and download first-stage loaders that will
then install the Dridex payload onto the victim machine.
13