LOLSnif – Tracking Another Ursnif-Based Targeted Campaign
telekom.com /en/blog/group/article/lolsnif-tracking-another-ursnif-based-targeted-campaign-600062
Tool leaks are very interesting occurrences in cyber security. On one hand, they may burn the
leaked tool since it got either publicly known or it facilitates the analysis of the tool significantly.
On the other hand, it transfers capabilities to other, possibly lower-skilled actors. In my new blog
post I analyze a newer version of Ursnif, which has been turned into an exploration tool and
downloader. Because: In case of malicious software, source code leaks are very remarkable
events. But first a small classification to get started. A notable example from the cyber security
history was the leak of the exploit code “Eternal Blue” (CVE-2017-0144) in 2017. This very
powerful remote exploit empowered many lower-skilled actors to conduct intrusions with ease.
Such leaks have occurred every now and then and they will most likely continue to occur in the
years to come. The leak of the banking Trojan Zeus definitely shaped the malware landscape
during the 2010s. Its source code was leaked in 2010. What followed was a plethora of offspring
that share the same code base with the original Zeus banking Trojan. For instance, the
zeusmuseum lists 28 families including Citadel, Pandabanker, and more recently Zloader. Many
families continued to operate as banking Trojans like their ancestor but some of them adopted
another purpose like the downloader Zloader.
Besides the Zeus source code leak, there are many more interesting leaks, each of them
deserves its own story. In this blog article, I focus on another malware family whose source code
got leaked in 2014. This family is called Ursnif (also known as Gozi2/ISFB). Ursnif is a fullyfledged banking Trojan. There has been many great technical as well as historical work on this
family in the recent years. For instance, Maciej Kotowicz wrote a very good write-up on this family
in 2016 and the podcast “Malicious Life” produced two episodes about the history of Gozi, the
ancestor of Ursnif. Today, the source code of Ursnif can be easily found on the Internet. Many
actors took this solid code base and based their work on it.
In this blog post, I analyze a recent Ursnif variant, which was repurposed to be a reconnaissance
tool and downloader. It is a modern variant utilizing techniques like LOLBins, Component Object
Model (COM) interfaces to instrument the Internet Explorer and as a consequence bypass local
proxies as well as Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to interact with the operating
system in place of native Win32 APIs. Campaigns associated with this variant start with a
cascade of several layers of obfuscation, which ensures that the detection rate is very low, even
several days after a campaign has started. This variant plays an important role in these
campaigns which appear to be targeted cybercrime attacks.
It was first publicly mentioned in August 2019, which is in line with the registration dates of some
associated domains and it gained momentum in autumn and winter 2019/2020. Recently, a blog
article scrutinized one of its campaigns in April 2020, pointing out its use of LOLBins. In a
nutshell, LOLBins stands for “Living Off the Land Binaries”, which means to utilize system tools
that are already on a target system in order to carry out nefarious purposes. For instance, there
https://www.telekom.com/en/blog/group/article/lolsnif-tracking-another-ursnif-based-targeted-campaign-600062 1/10
5/15/2020 Cybersecurity: Tool leaks are very interesting occurrences in cyber security. | Deutsche Telekom
are dozens of Windows system tools that can be utilized to download files, dump credentials, or
execute other binaries. As a consequence, attacks do not need to bring their own tools and may
hide their traces in other legitimate uses of these tools.
To the best of my knowledge, it is not yet tracked under its own name. Since the Ursnif variant
that I will look into in this blog article makes use of LOLBins and there is already a reference to
this (“Ursnif via LOLbins”), I will refer to it as LOLSnif in the following.