Building organizational resilience against attacks that blend in
BISMUTH attacks put strong emphasis on hiding in plain sight by blending in with normal
network activity or common threats that attackers anticipate will get low-priority attention.
The combination of social engineering and use of legitimate applications to sideload
malicious DLLs entail multiple layers of protection focused on stopping threats at the earliest
possible stage and mitigating the progression of attacks if they manage to slip through. Here
are mitigation recommendations that organizations can implement to limit exposure:
Limit the attack surface that attackers can leverage for initial access:
Educate end users about protecting personal and business information in social media,
filtering unsolicited communication, identifying lures in spear-phishing email, and
reporting of reconnaissance attempts and other suspicious activity.
Configure Office 365 email filtering settings to ensure blocking of phishing & spoofed
emails, spam, and emails with malware. Set Office 365 to recheck links on click
and delete sent mail to benefit from newly acquired threat intelligence.
Turn on attack surface reduction rules, including rules that can block advanced macro
activity, executable content, process creation, and process injection initiated by Office
applications.
Disallow macros or allow only macros from trusted locations. See the latest security
baselines for Office and Office 365.
Check perimeter firewall and proxy to restrict servers from making arbitrary
connections to the internet to browse or download files. Such restrictions help inhibit
malware downloads and command-and-control activity.
Build credential hygiene to reduce risk during discovery stage:
Enforce strong, randomized local administrator passwords. Use tools like LAPS.
Practice the principle of least-privilege and maintain credential hygiene. Avoid the use
of domain-wide, admin-level service accounts.
Require multi-factor authentication through Windows Hello.
Stop attack sprawl and contain attacker movement:
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-heres-how-to-spot-them/ 6/8
12/1/2020 Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them - Microsoft Security
Turn on cloud-delivered protection and automatic sample submission on Microsoft
Defender Antivirus. These capabilities use artificial intelligence and machine learning
to quickly identify and stop new and unknown threats.
Turn on tamper protection features to prevent attackers from stopping security
services.
Monitor for clearing of event logs. Windows generates security event ID 1102 when this
occurs.
Determine where highly privileged accounts are logging on and exposing credentials.
Monitor and investigate logon events (event ID 4624) for logon type attributes. Highly
privileged accounts should not be present on workstations.
Utilize the Microsoft Defender Firewall, intrusion prevention devices, and your
network firewall to prevent RPC and SMB communication among endpoints whenever
possible. This limits lateral movement as well as other attack activities.
To better defend organizations against attacks that do everything to blend in once they gain
access to a network, organizations can build defenses for preventing and blocking attacks at
the initial access stage. Microsoft Defender for Office 365 provides defense capabilities that
protect organizations from threats like credential phishing, business email compromise, and
cyberattacks that begin with spear-phishing emails. Safe attachments and Safe links provide
real-time protection using a combination of detonation, automated analysis, and machine
learning, which are especially useful for highly targeted, specially crafted emails. Campaign
views show the complete picture of email campaigns, including timelines, sending patterns,
impact to the organization, and details like IP addresses, senders, URLs.
The broader Microsoft 365 Defender presents cross-domain threat intelligence and
actionable information in consolidated incidents view, empowering security operations
teams to comprehensively respond to attacks. For critical threats like BISMUTH campaigns,
Microsoft researchers publish threat analytics reports that contain technical details,
detection info, and mitigation status. Investigation tools like advanced hunting allow security
teams to perform additional inspection of the environment for related or similar threats.
Threat and vulnerability management data show mitigation recommendations, including
enabling relevant attack surface reduction rules, that organizations can take to reduce risks.
These industry-leading capabilities in Microsoft 365 Defender are backed by Microsoft’s
network of researchers and security experts who monitor the threat landscape and track
threat actors like BISMUTH. Through Microsoft 365 Defender, we transform threat
intelligence into protections and rich investigation tools that organizations can use to build
organizational resilience. Learn how you can stop attacks through automated, cross-domain
security and built-in AI with Microsoft Defender 365.
Microsoft 365 Defender Threat Intelligence Team
with Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC)
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/11/30/threat-actor-leverages-coin-miner-techniques-to-stay-under-the-radar-heres-how-to-spot-them/ 7/8
12/1/2020 Threat actor leverages coin miner techniques to stay under the radar – here’s how to spot them - Microsoft Security