2019
LONDON
2 – 4 October 2019
Most of the APK binaries of the Geost botnet are identifi ed in VirusTotal as ‘Android Hqwar’ or
‘Banking Trojan’. However, both terms are generic and used to identify thousands of binaries that are
protected by a software packer or an obfuscating method. Therefore, this particular botnet has not
been identifi ed by the community until now. As an example of how each APK was detected by
VirusTotal, Table 2 shows a subsample of the total number of APKs and their detection ratios.
Relationships in the infrastructure
Among the uncommon characteristics of the Geost infrastructure are: (i) each domain corresponds to
a unique IP address; (ii) no domain was ever seen without an IP address registered; (iii) each IP
address has more than one domain assigned to it; (iv) domains always refer to the same IP address. It
is worth noting that the Geost malware used random generation of words at least in three places: (1)
to generate its domain names, (2) to generate the names of PHP fi les, and (3) to generate the names
of the APK packages.
An example relationship between the pieces of the botnet’s infrastructure is the sample
92a3a69c6c0922ace36ca3ac95fcbbb6. This sample communicated with the domain wef34r34rs.xyz,
which resolved to the IP address 154.16.244.28. This sample targeted three of the top fi ve Russian
banks and the name of its package is ‘com.vuzbswbpv.ipapszyud’. The same IP address was also
assigned to the domain t43r43r43.xyz that is requested by the sample
92a8aa2c6dd86aeab67e687de2c9e6a9591bee17.
6. VICTIMS
The traffi c generated by the botmasters when accessing the C&C server revealed information about
the victims of this botnet. It seems that the botmasters kept a detailed summary of the victims, and
that this summary was important for the operation of the botnet. The victims of this botnet not only
probably lose money but they had their privacy and identity completely compromised. The minimum
amount of information that the botmasters know about each victim can be seen in the following list:


IMEI of the phone


Brand of the phone


Phone service provider


Phone number


Country of the phone number


Current balance of bank accounts


History of balance in each bank account (the history of the balance is not even available to the
victims themselves)


Whether they have a credit card tied to the phone


From the SMS of the victims:


Name of victim


Home address


Social relationships


PAPER PRESENTED AT VB2019 LONDON 15