CHINA
LOOKING FORWARD
The publication of WICKED PANDA-associated activities, as well as the
IntrusionTruth reporting on KRYPTONITE PANDA (reported in January 2020),
may have a cooling effect on the MSS’s reliance on using contract entities in the
near-term, but CrowdStrike Intelligence expects a return to operations will occur
after tactics are reviewed and updated. Targeting by actor groups associated with
the MSS will likely continue to focus on maintaining access to upstream telecom
providers, as well as developing new supply chain compromises.
CrowdStrike Intelligence anticipates that the first draft of China’s next Five-Year Plan
(FYP) will be released in early 2020. This draft is only the first step before a final
version is agreed upon in 2021; however, the initial proposal may contain clues about
the future priorities of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and will help launch
planning in numerous CCP agencies. Part of the previous FYP outlined key industries
for domestic growth, a vital indication of which sectors are at an increased risk
of IP theft. Despite the U.S.’s request for controls on IP theft and corporate
espionage, the targeting of U.S. companies engaged in key industries deemed vital
to China’s strategic interests — including clean energy, healthcare, biotechnology,
pharmaceuticals and others — is likely to continue. CrowdStrike Intelligence
assesses this is likely despite announcements from Washington and Beijing that a
limited trade deal may bring an end to the U.S.-China trade war.
China’s improving disinformation efforts will continue to have an immediate effect in
Hong Kong and Taiwan following their resistance to CCP and support of democratic
values throughout 2019 and into 2020. These campaigns will augment China’s robust
targeted intrusion resources when dealing with regional neighbors. Western companies
are likely to be caught in the middle, between domestic audiences supporting human
rights (if only nominally) and pressures from the CCP to bow to censorship. As both
Taiwan and Hong Kong are seen by the CCP as “domestic” interference and testing
grounds for China-backed cyber operations, they likely foreshadow China’s interest in
fomenting unrest and conducting disinformation campaigns on Western democratic
elections such as the U.S. presidential election in November 2020.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020