Executive Summary
As the modern threat landscape has evolved, so have the actors. The barrier to entry for cyber-warfare has continued to
— are now able to build and
decrease, which means new nation states — previously without significant offensive capabilities [1]
deploy widespread multi-platform cyber-espionage campaigns.
This report uncovers a prolific actor with nation-state level advanced persistent threat (APT) capabilities, who is exploiting targets
globally across multiple platforms. The actor has been observed making use of desktop tooling, but has prioritized mobile
devices as the primary attack vector. This is one of the first publicly documented mobile APT actors known to execute espionage
on a global scale.
Lookout and Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) have discovered Dark Caracal [2], a persistent and prolific actor, who at the time
of writing is believed to be administered out of a building belonging to the Lebanese General Security Directorate in Beirut. At
present, we have knowledge of hundreds of gigabytes of exfiltrated data, in 21+ countries, across thousands of victims. Stolen
data includes enterprise intellectual property and personally identifiable information. We are releasing more than 90 indicators
of compromise (IOC) associated with Dark Caracal including 11 different Android malware IOCs; 26 desktop malware IOCs
across Windows, Mac, and Linux; and 60 domain/IP based IOCs.
Dark Caracal targets include individuals and entities that a nation state might typically attack, including governments, military
targets, utilities, financial institutions, manufacturing companies, and defense contractors. We specifically uncovered data
associated with military personnel, enterprises, medical professionals, activists, journalists, lawyers, and educational institutions
during this investigation. Types of data include documents, call records, audio recordings, secure messaging client content,
contact information, text messages, photos, and account data.
The joint Lookout-EFF investigation began after EFF released its Operation Manul report, highlighting a multi-platform espionage
campaign targeted at journalists, activists, lawyers, and dissidents who were critical of President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s regime
in Kazakhstan. The report describes malware and tactics targeting desktop machines, with references to a possible Android
component. After investigating related infrastructure and connections to Operation Manul, the team concluded that the same
infrastructure is likely shared by multiple actors and is being used in a new set of campaigns.
The diversity of seemingly unrelated campaigns that have been carried out from this infrastructure suggests it is being used
simultaneously by multiple groups. Operation Manul clearly targeted persons of interest to Kazakhstan, while Dark Caracal has
given no indication of an interest in these targets or their associates. This suggests that Dark Caracal either uses or manages the
infrastructure found to be hosting a number of widespread, global cyber-espionage campaigns.
Since 2007, Lookout has investigated and tracked mobile security events across hundreds of millions of devices around the world.
This mobile espionage campaign is one of the most prolific we have seen to date. Additionally, we have reason to believe the
activity Lookout and EFF have directly observed represents only a small fraction of the cyber-espionage that has been conducted
using this infrastructure.
1 https://www.checkpoint.com/downloads/volatile-cedar-technical-report.pdf
2 In keeping with traditional APT naming, we chose the name “Caracal” (pronounced [kar-uh-kal]) because the feline is native to Lebanon and because this group has
remained hidden for so long. From the Wikipedia entry “the caracal is highly secretive and difficult to observe” and “is often confused with [other breeds of cat].” The
naming further builds on EFF’s “Operation Manul,” another feline reference. We like cats.
1
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT