Is it possible to know who is behind the attack?
In most cases, getting to know who is behind
a cyber-attack is very complex, sometimes
impossible.
In this case we were fairly pessimistic. To make it
worse, the fact that no malware had been used
in the attack ruled out the possibility of finding a
signature to examine. However, there was a weak
spot in the attack: the FTP connection used to
send out the stolen credentials.
The information was transmitted using the FTP
command, and as that command was called
by one of the scripts, it was possible to see the
connection used, from where it was established
and the credentials used. The FTP server belonged
to a free service that the attacker had signed
up to, so we were able to access it and see the
information entered when opening the account.
Yes, we were aware that the information would
probably be false, but it was still worth checking.
The name used was false; googling it returned
zero results.  The country selected was the United
States, which could be false as well. Then we had a
look at the city information. The name in this field
was unknown to us: “Ikeja”.
It turns out that Ikeja is the name of a suburb in
Lagos -the capital city of Nigeria-, also known
as the “Computer Village” as it hosts the nation’s
largest market cluster for technology products.
This information could also be false, but the fact
that whoever opened the account was familiar
with that name meant that they were from Nigeria
themselves or knew the country very well.
Then came the email address. This was the only
element that we knew for sure had to be real and
valid, as it is the address at which users receive
the service activation message, password reset
messages, etc. In this case it was a Gmail address:
***5@gmail.com
pandalabs
The password was unknown, they hadn’t used the
same one as for the FTP service. We took the 9
characters that made up the email address and
started combining them to see if we could form an
alias, a first name, a last name or similar. And we
got it .
We googled what looked like a first name and last
name and got a hit. It was the name of a person
with Nigerian nationality and Twitter, Facebook
and LinkedIn accounts, which allowed us to obtain
some more information about him. All those
accounts belonged to a person living in... Ikeja and
who is the owner of a goods transport company.
Ikeja
?????????5@gmail.com
Too many coincidences. So, even though all the
evidence seems to indicate that this is the person
responsible for the attack, there is no way for us
to prove it. It would require the police to launch
an investigation and obtain information about
the FTP connections, etc., in order to get the
IP address of the person who signed up to the
service and find the culprit.
pandasecurity.com