Targeting
TA406 conducts credential-phishing campaigns that target experts at political and foreign policy organizations and NGOs,
especially those who are working with or are experts on activities that impact the Korean Peninsula, including nuclear
nonproliferation. TA406 also targets academics and journalists.
Generally, TA406 phishing campaigns focus on individuals in North America, Russia and China, with the actors frequently
masquerading as Russian diplomats and academics, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian
Federation, human rights officials, or Korean individuals. TA406 has also targeted individuals and organizations related to
cryptocurrency for the purpose of financial gain.
One campaign in 2021 conducted by TA406 had drastically different targeting than normal for unknown reasons. The
campaign occurred around the same time as the March 2021 North Korean missile tests and targeted several organizations
and individuals not previously observed as targets for TA406. The recipients of that campaign included some of the highestranking elected officials of several different governmental institutions, an employee at a consulting firm, government
institutions related to defense, law enforcement, and economy and finance, and generic mailboxes for board and customer
relations of a large financial institution.
Such diverse and high-profile targeting is unusual for TA406 and the timing of this campaign which coincided with prominent
missile testing, may have been a political signal rather than an intent to collect credentials. On the other hand, TA406 and
other actors associated with DPRK are opportunistic and would likely capitalize on stolen credentials if any of the recipients
or organizations had fallen victim to the campaign.
Before 2021, Proofpoint had observed limited credential-capture campaigns using national security or human rights themes.
TA406 was also one of the first threat actors to use coronavirus themes (see Figure 6), appearing in Proofpoint data before
nearly every other criminal or advanced persistent threat (APT) in February 2020.
9
TRIPLE THREAT: NORTH KOREA-ALIGNED TA406 STEALS, SCAMS, AND SPIES ** REPORT**
Figure 6. TA406 government-themed website purporting to distribute coronavirus information impacting the Korean peninsula
In early 2021, TA406 began almost weekly campaigns featuring themes that included nuclear weapon safety, U.S. President Joe
Biden, Korean foreign policy and other political themes. The group attempted to collect credentials, such as Microsoft logins
or other corporate credentials, from the targeted individuals. In some cases, the emails were benign in nature; these messages
may have been attempts by the attackers to engage with victims before sending them a malicious link or attachment.