~~IoT security~~ ~~policy~~ ~~considerations~~
Policymakers around the world are acknowledging
the profound implications of IoT security for privacy,
safety, critical infrastructure protection, and digital
transformation in general. Approaches to IoT
security policy range from voluntary programs to
mandatory security requirements. The range of IoT
device types, growing number of devices, and the
volume of interactions between devices, the physical
world, and the internet make developing effective
Those adopting
IoT for
sustainability
are more likely
to be in the
implementation
phase of their
AI strategy than
those adopting
IoT for other
reasons. [ Note 86 ]
and appropriately tailored cybersecurity policy a
complex task. To tackle the IoT threat landscape,
the global community of IoT manufacturers and
cybersecurity experts has developed sets of
best practice standards for IoT device cybersecurity.
These standards have demonstrated effectiveness
against common attacks, and industry and
policymakers alike can leverage them for
immediate improvements to the global state of
IoT device security for consumer, enterprise, and
government users.
Minimum security baselines
Standards for minimum IoT security baselines
provide a promising start to improving global
agency use of IoT devices, and EO 14028, which
proposes a consumer IoT device labeling program
that may also reference NISTIR 8259A as well as
compatibility with ETSI or ISO standards. Other
examples include the proposed mandatory security
requirements for consumer smart devices in the
UK, [ Note 88 ] and the voluntary device labeling schemes
in Singapore and Finland, all based on ETSI EN
303 645. In leveraging international standards and
widely used best practices, policymakers can also
help to ensure that mandatory requirements are
consistent and mutually recognized across regions
to avoid fragmentation that would work against IoT
innovation, interoperability, and security.
Global Cyber Alliance project:
How policy and standards
improve IoT security
Standards, laws, and proposed requirements for
minimum IoT device security baselines share many
commonly recommended or required controls.
The first three provisions of the ETSI standard for
consumer IoT security, ETSI EN 303 645, are the most
highly recommended by ETSI and make appearances
in several national-level policies. These include:


No default passwords


Implement a vulnerability disclosure policy


Keep software updated


Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
cybersecurity health. These standards are intended
to provide guidance for manufacturers, developers,
and users to identify and adopt best practices for
device security. Prominent examples of international
standards include the European Telecommunications
Standards Institute (ETSI) standard for consumer
IoT security released in June 2020, ETSI EN 303 645.
The ETSI standard is now a public set of resources
that governments and companies around the world
can use to enhance the security of IoT devices,
and it includes both governance and technical
recommendations. It was created through a
rigorous and collaborative multistakeholder process
involving experts from industry, government,
and academia. Similarly, after an iterative public
consultation process, in May 2020, NIST released
NISTIR 8259A, which details a baseline set of device
capabilities necessary for common cybersecurity
controls. The International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) and the International
Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) are also
developing a minimum-security baseline.
Policy can help manufacturers adopt international
standards in a consistent way to improve security
across a range of consumer products and
promote an advanced state of security in critical
applications. In the United States, policy initiatives
based on standards include the IoT Cybersecurity
Improvement Act of 2020, [ Note 87 ] which references NISTIR
8259A for managing risks associated with US federal
Note 86 Microsoft IOT Signals report, to be published November 2021 Note 87 Text of H.R. 1668 (116th): IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2020 (Passed Congress
version) - GovTrack.us [Note 88 ] New cyber security laws to protect smart devices amid pandemic sales surge – GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
84
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Managing supplier ecosystem risk How Microsoft thinks about supply chain IoT and OT threat landscape 7 properties of secured devices Applying Zero Trust to IoT IoT and sustainability IoT policy
State laws in California and Oregon both prohibit
default passwords for IoT devices. Similarly,
recommendations or requirements for updated
software and use of secure communications
protocols like HTTPS also frequently appear in
standards and policies around the globe.
Microsoft supported a research study conducted by
the Global Cyber Alliance (GCA) [ Note 89 ] to demonstrate
the effectiveness of commonly recommended
controls in preventing attacks. The analysis can be
GCA honeyfarm attacker traffic by protocol
used to help policymakers and industry leaders
understand the benefit of best practice approaches
to IoT device security, and as proof points for
manufacturers to adopt standards and comply
with policy.
Using home-grown honeypot technology, GCA
created an enticingly accessible target for would-be
attackers to learn as much as possible about the
existence, source, and prevalence of attacks. GCA
operated a large honey farm of several hundred
emulated IoT devices distributed worldwide to
provide real, at-scale, long-term attack data to
understand trends and changes in IoT attack
methodologies.
The research tested three controls commonly
referenced in IoT security standards and policy:


Secured access control (“no default passwords”)


Device capability to update software and


recommendation to keep software updated

Data in transit is protected

SUMMARY OF GCA CONCLUSIONS
GCA’s analysis of real attack data shows that default
passwords factory-set by device manufacturers and
never changed by users, along with weak passwords
set by users, together represent the most exploited
security vulnerability for IoT devices. ~~Policy and~~
~~regulatory frameworks can help drive adoption and~~
~~harmonize implementation of the requirements in~~
~~IoT device security standards s~~ uch as NISTIR 8259,
ETSI EN 303 645, and ISO/IEC 27402 to promote
secured access control best practices and address
this risk.
Roughly equal attacker traffic scanning for open ports through which to launch attacks.
Note 89 https://www.globalcyberalliance.org/
GCA honeyfarm attacks with activity (commands and downloads) by protocol
Telnet is the clear protocol of choice for exploitation in attacks launched on IoT devices.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
85
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Managing supplier ecosystem risk How Microsoft thinks about supply chain IoT and OT threat landscape 7 properties of secured devices Applying Zero Trust to IoT IoT and sustainability IoT policy
When we look at attacks against these two ports, we see things are anything but static. Different actors come
and go, in many cases repurposing bots with leaked source code such as MIRAI. Often these attacks replicate
existing ways of working, but we have started to see more advanced use cases where bots are leveraging new
exploits. [ Note 90 ] It is worth noting that many of these attacks continue to use poor passwords as a basis for lateral
movement between infected hosts.
Microsoft’s sensor network gives us raw data on these types of attacks and the passwords in use. We looked at
over 280,000 attacks and analyzed the password data we collected. Perhaps unsurprisingly we saw that ~~96% of~~
~~attacks used a password with fewer than 10 characters, 92% had fewer than 8, and slightly more shockingly, 72%~~
~~of all attacks required only trying a password of 6 characters or less. Within these password attempts, only 2%~~
~~included a special character and 72% didn’t even contain a number.~~
The attacks we are seeing in the wild line up with the GCA data and other reports. Default passwords, which are
generally a single short English word, make it trivial for an attacker to access an organization’s infrastructure. If
secure identity management with an organization’s IoT devices is not an option, longer passwords—especially
those with special characters—are strongly advised.
Attacks against Telnet and SSH ports
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
The research also showed widespread prevalence
of attempts to exploit security vulnerabilities in
the software stacks of IoT devices. This finding
offers support for the effectiveness of keeping
software updated and using secure communications
protocols to prevent attempts to compromise
security vulnerabilities.
The prevalence of attack attempts observed on
security vulnerabilities in IoT device software also
supports the notion that commonly recommended
nontechnical controls would reduce the likelihood
of attack success. In particular, requirements for
manufacturers to implement a vulnerability disclosure
and management policy and to disclose the security
support status of their products would provide
valuable information to consumers.
Learn more:
Global Cyber Alliance: IoT Policy and Attack Report
Note 90 How to proactively defend against Mozi IoT botnet Microsoft Security Blog|
Microsoft data and threat
signals support these findings
The GCA project findings align well to what Microsoft
sees across its IoT sensor network. Generic HTTP
scanning and scraping forms the bulk of requests we
receive, followed by Secure Shell (SSH) and Telnet,
respectively. Both protocols are frequently seen
across IoT/OT devices, with Telnet in particular being
a favorite of botnets like MIRAI and others based on
it. The two protocols are also commonly associated
with brute force password attacks, and when taken
together become the most prevalent type of attack
we see against IoT/OT devices.
Distribution of attacks against popular IoT/OT
protocols (July 2020-June 2021)
86
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Managing supplier ecosystem risk How Microsoft thinks about supply chain IoT and OT threat landscape 7 properties of secured devices Applying Zero Trust to IoT IoT and sustainability IoT policy
Passwords seen in 45 days of sensor signals
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
CHAPTER 5