1.11. Energy Sector in the Crosshairs
Nation-state attackers have typically carried out destructive attacks against the energy sector,
with historic focus especially oil and gas; however, destructive attacks can target any entity.
Why has this sector been finding itself in the crosshairs of such activity?
The key role oil and gas production and processing play on both the national and global level,
represents a high-value target for state-sponsored adversarial actors. These types of attackers
may be tasked with conducting anything from industrial espionage, to cyber kinetic attacks
designed to disrupt the critical infrastructure of rival nations. Depending on the sophistication,
scale, and frequency of attacks, cyber incidents in this space have the potential to disrupt
critical services, damage or destroy highly specialized equipment, and ultimately inflict
detrimental cascading effects upon global energy [10] security and industries downstream. [11,] [12]
While nation state attacks have been happening more in the past decade, it is since at least
2012 that Iranian state-sponsored threat actors have been leveraging cyber-attacks to inflict
destructive, kinetic effects on their targets. [13] The use of cyber-based weapons in lieu of
conventional military tactics presents Iran, in this case, with a low-cost, and potentially
nonattributable means of conducting hostile, and even warlike activity. With attribution to one
specific group becoming a challenge nowadays, working under the cyber cloak of anonymity
can also allow Iran to evade sanctions and preserve its relations with international players who
may support its economic and nuclear energy interests.
Looking at the geographical region hit by the ZeroCleare malware, it is not the first time the
Middle East has seen destructive attacks target its energy sector. In addition to underpinning
the economies of several Gulf nations, the Middle East petrochemical market, for example,
hosts approximately 64.5% of the world’s proven oil reserves, making it a vital center of global
energy architecture. [14] Destructive cyberattacks against energy infrastructure in this arena
therefore represent a high-impact threat to both the regional and international markets.