Infection Analysis
In reality the infection procedure is a bit more complex and relies on multiple different
technologies, mixing VBA code, Powershell, MS HTA, with JScript inside and more
Powershell. Let’s take a look at this more closely to let incident responders and security
researchers recognize such an attack at any time in the future.
One of the recent documents that we discovered had the following properties:
MD5: 0e7b32d23fbd6d62a593c234bafa2311
SHA1: ff59cb2b4a198d1e6438e020bb11602bd7d2510d
File Type: Microsoft Office Word
Last saved date: 2018-05-14 15:32:17 (GMT)
Known file name: Spiez CONVERGENCE.doc
The embedded macro is heavily obfuscated. It has a randomly-generated variable and function
name.
Obfuscated VBA macro
2/14
Its purpose is to execute a Powershell command. This VBA code was obfuscated with the
same technique used in the original Olympic Destroyer spear-phishing campaign.
It starts a new obfuscated Powershell scriptlet via the command line. The obfuscator is using
array-based rearranging to mutate original code, and protects all commands and strings such
as the command and control (C2) server address.
There is one known obfuscation tool used to produce such an effect: Invoke-Obfuscation.
Obfuscated commandline Powershell scriptlet
This script disables Powershell script logging to avoid leaving traces:
It has an inline implementation of the RC4 routine in Powershell, which is used to decrypt
additional payload downloaded from Microsoft OneDrive. The decryption relies on a hardcoded
32-byte ASCII hexadecimal alphabet key. This is a familiar technique used in other Olympic
Destroyer spear-phishing documents in the past and in Powershell backdoors found in the
infrastructure of Olympic Destroyer’s victims located in Pyeongchang.
3/14
[/caption]
The second stage payload downloaded is an HTA file that also executes a Powershell script.
Downloaded access.log.txt
This file has a similar structure to the Powershell script executed by the macro in spear
phishing attachments. After deobfuscating it, we can see that this script also disables
Powershell logging and downloads the next stage payload from the same server address. It
also uses RC4 with a pre-defined key:
4/14
The final payload is the Powershell Empire agent. Below we partially provide the http stager
scriptlet for the downloaded Empire agent.
Powershell Empire is a post-exploitation free and open-source framework written in Python
and Powershell that allows fileless control of the compromised hosts, has modular architecture
and relies on encrypted communication. This framework is widely used by penetration-testing
companies in legitimate security tests for lateral movement and information gathering.