N. KOREA
↘
In 2020,
DPRK operations
broadly exhibited
a twofold mission:
intelligence collection
and currency
generation.
CrowdStrike Intelligence tracked activity from all five named DPRK adversaries —
LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA, STARDUST CHOLLIMA, SILENT CHOLLIMA, VELVET
CHOLLIMA and RICOCHET CHOLLIMA — in 2020. DPRK operations this year
broadly exhibited a twofold mission, focusing on intelligence collection and currency
generation. Campaigns have primarily been aimed at North America, Europe,
South Korea and Japan. Espionage operations have centered on East Asia/Korea
foreign policy and military technology. With the start of the COVID-19 pandemic,
CrowdStrike Intelligence observed multiple DPRK adversaries expand their target
scopes to the healthcare sector. Observed efforts from DPRK actors centered on
companies leading research on COVID-19 vaccine candidates, and it is likely these
adversaries were focused on gathering intellectual property that could assist North
Korea in the development of its own vaccine.
Cyber-enabled currency generation continued apace in 2020; however, DPRK
adversaries placed a greater emphasis on obtaining capital through more common
eCrime tactics such as ransomware, extortion, and the targeting of cryptocurrency
exchanges, rather than through the complex infiltrations that manipulated financial
infrastructure, as previously seen from North Korea.
Actor Highlight: LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA
Throughout much of 2020, LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA was not only the most prolific
DPRK adversary, but also one of the most active targeted-intrusion adversaries
tracked by CrowdStrike Intelligence. CrowdStrike Intelligence observed the
deployment of several new LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA tools during the year.
New tooling does not appear to represent a significant deviation in technical
sophistication from previously observed LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA implants; however,
there appears to be an emphasis on operational security and defeating signature
based detections with these new tools. For instance, both NedDownloader and
UnderGround RAT — as well as an unnamed malicious PDF viewer — rely on
trojanized variants of legitimate applications, techniques that allow LABYRINTH
CHOLLIMA to effectively avoid YARA detections and automated malware analysis in
sandbox environments. Tooling has also placed greater emphasis on cross-platform
coverage, with multiple new LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA tools now targeting MacOS
and Linux operating systems, in addition to Windows.
LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA also began to rely heavily on LinkedIn personas as an
intrusion vector in 2020. Across operations targeting the defense, media, financial
and healthcare sectors, LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA has used LinkedIn profiles
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 45