US RETAIL ATTACKS
In mid-December 2018 a spear-phishing campaign was detected as targeting large US-based retailers along
with organizations in the food and beverage industry. Masquerading as a legitimate communication sent
from a Ricoh printer, the initial email lured victims into opening an attached malicious Microsoft Word
document.
Lure Document/Downloader
Once opened, the lure document (Figure 1) encourages the victim to disable Microsoft Office’s security
features as well as including the target organization logo to appear authentic.
6
Figure 1 – Lure document
Once editing has been enabled within the document, a Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macro
is executed that will download an additional payload from the threat actor’s command and control
(C2) infrastructure, using the Microsoft Windows Installer (Figure 2).
The remote payload to install is specified by passing the URL to the ‘/i’ command line option whilst the
quiet ‘/q’ option ensures that the installation is performed in the background without displaying user
interface (UI) elements to the victim. Additionally, three variables are provided, ‘step’, ‘done’ and ‘change’
that, along with their corresponding values, would be passed to the installation package to influence or
modify the installation.
Presumably to thwart detection or casual analysis, the VBA macro code has some code obfuscation with
class and module attributes being used to store values (Figure 3) that are later referenced (Figure 4).
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
Figure 3 – Form ‘Tag’ attribute value holding the MSIExec parameters (download URL)
Figure 4 – Referencing the ‘Tag’ attribute
Potentially remaining from previous versions of this VBA macro, artefacts include code comments that
appear to be variable assignments referencing ‘Temp\scype0’, a potential file path and misspelling of ‘Skype’
(Figure 5), as well as a seemingly unreferenced IP logging service ‘hxxps://iplogger.org/6vfgP’ that provides
logs detail of any IP address accessing the URL (Figure 6).
Figure 5 – Code artefacts
The use of this IP logging service provides a
useful insight into those that have executed the
weaponised document with details of the visitor’s,
or more aptly victim’s, IP address, operating system,
browser and geolocation being available to the
threat actor through a statistics page accessible via
a specific link combined with their ‘IPLogger ID’.
Figure 6 – ‘IPLogger.org’ statistics
7
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
INSTALLATION
Having downloaded the MSI installation package, the MSIExec installation process executes without user
interaction (Figure 7) and extracts the payload components.
which in turn executes the ‘i.cmd’ shell script (Figure 8).
Figure 8 – First-stage shell script
The use of the ping command (lines 2 and 4) sends
three echo requests to the legitimate domain
‘cloudflare.com’, with the timeout value set to
3,000 milliseconds, and potentially acts as both
a connectivity test and a pause between steps.
Assuming the ping process exits without error,
indicated by the ‘%ERRORLEVEL%’ not being equal
to one, the dropped self-extracting archive file ‘syst.
dll’ is first renamed as ‘7zinstall.exe’ (line 3) and then
executed (line 5).
The self-extracting archive is extracted, as specified
by the ‘x’ option, using the password provided after
the ‘-p’ switch whilst the ‘-y’ switch suppresses any
potential user interaction by assuming ‘yes’ to any
query or prompt.
Having extracted the contents of the self
extracting archive to ‘%PROGRAMDATA%\
Microtik’, a second copy of the ‘exit.exe’ file is
present along with a legitimate signed Remote
Manipulator System (RMS) executable ‘winserv.
exe’, RMS configuration file ‘settings.dat’ and a
different ‘i.cmd’ shell script.
The final stage of the self-extraction process
launches ‘exit.exe’ (Figure 9) which in turn spawns
another command-line interpreter ‘cmd.exe’ to
execute the new ‘i.cmd’ shell script (Figure 10).
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
8
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
Figure 10 – Second-stage shell script
For persistence, the second-stage shell script (line 2) adds a ‘Microtik’ string value to the ‘HKEY_
CURRENT_USERS’ hive, ‘Windows\CurrentVersion’Run’ key (Figure 11) to launch the RMS executable
whenever the user logs on.
Figure 11 – Persistence registry key
Additionally, the RMS executable is launched (line 3) before the script tries to forcefully kill the
‘rundll32.exe’ process, causing the script to go into a loop.
Finally, the RMS executable attempts to ‘call home’ with connection attempts being observed, at
the time, to ‘89.144.25.32’ on port ‘5655’, a C2 server located in Germany.
Pivoting on the indicators observed in this campaign identify additional malicious samples and
associated C2 domains/IP addresses that, in addition to identifying a pattern of activity, link this
observed activity to TA505 operations utilising the ‘ServHelper’ backdoor.