1999
Nearly a decade ago, Chinese IO theorists were
already discussing offensive actions. Zhu Wenguan
and Chen Taiyi’s Information War, published in 1999,
contains a section called “Conducting Camouflaged
Preemptive Attacks.” The authors note that preemptive
active offense is needed to disrupt and destroy enemy
computer offensive forces. [1] A part of preemption
appears to be network surveillance, which involves
collecting information on the performance, purpose,
and structure of systems related to C4I, electronic
warfare, and weapon systems. The authors note that, in
the broadest sense, computer information surveillance
is a part of computer information attack. They state:
To conduct computer surveillance, we can
use computer information networks set up
in peacetime and enter networks as differ­
ent users to do the surveillance in an area
broader than the battlefield. We can borrow
the power of computer experts, especially
hackers, to finish computer surveillance
tasks . . . it can be seen that using hackers to
obtain military information from computer
networks is a very effective method. We
should be familiar with network protocols
and accumulate network intelligence. [2]
The authors add that the PLA established small
brigades of offensive and defensive computer con­
frontation forces to conduct these attacks. [3] Offensive
training includes how to design and organize virus
invasions and how to enter the other side’s computer
networks. Offensive brigades must repeatedly study
and analyze the enemy’s potential. They must also be
able to sort truth and deception, pinpoint enemy com­
puter-control centers, and jam in targeted ways. [4]
In November 1999, a Jiefanguin Bao ( Liberation
Army Daily ) article stated that China may develop
an information warfare branch of service—a “net
force”—to complement the army, navy, and air force.
(While the article said this development was very
likely to become a reality, there is no evidence to con­
firm the creation of such a branch of service today.)
The force’s task would be to protect net sovereignty
and engage in net warfare. Elements of net warfare
include “offensive and defensive” technologies,
“scanning” technologies, “masquerade” (deception)
48 November-December 2008  Military Review
technology, and “recovery” technology. Masquerade
technology would assist a person who wanted to dis­
semble as a commander and take over a net. [5]