The Linux XOR.DDoS Botnet
While BlackBerry researchers were unable to recover the local kernel module from
an active infection, examination of how WINNTI GROUP’s PWNLNX1 interacted with
its rootkit provided a startling discovery: an explicit link to one of the largest Linux
botnets ever, which was discovered in September of 2014, and dubbed “Linux.XorDDoS”
(Malware Must Die!, 2014).
The Xor.DDoS botnet earned notoriety in 2015 for its high-bandwidth attacks of up to
150 GBPS. According to researchers at Akamai, the botnet was observed attacking 20
targets per day, 90% of them in Asia, with video game companies leading the target
list (Akamai, 2015).
Akamai observed that the botnet grew in size after using brute force attacks to obtain
the password for the target Linux server. The attackers then simply logged in to the
server to drop the botnet malware (Akamai, 2015). Curiously, despite its size and relative
firepower, news of widespread denial of service reports has proven difficult to find. This
begs the question: Why build a giant DDoS botnet if you don’t intend to disrupt websites?
In investigating further, BlackBerry researchers found that PWNLNX1 utilized a device
named “/proc/rs_dev” for rootkit functionality. This is the exact same device name used
in the botnet. What’s more, early PWNLNX1 samples even used the exact same string
as an XOR key for network traffic obfuscation: “BB2FA36AAA9541F0”.
These combination of these factors – the age of the malware, repeated use of the exact
same XOR key, code reuse, and targeting of the video game industry - indicated either
there was a sharing between the WINNTI GROUP and the group behind the botnet or they
were in fact one and the same. Of those two possibilities, BlackBerry researchers judged
the latter to be more likely, and that WINNTI GROUP was behind the Xor.DDoS botnet.
This was a surprising find, as it was not expected to find the kernel modules used by
PWNLNX1 had employed different ioctl codes for the same functionality. This told us
that the Linux Kernel Modules (LKMs) were different despite using many of the same
function names.
A little more digging lead us to conclude that both were instead based off of the
open-source “Suterusu Rootkit” (Coppola, Suterusu Rootkit: Inline Kernel Function
Hooking on x86 and ARM, 2013). This, in contrast, wasn’t at all surprising given China’s
aforementioned affinity for and skill in leveraging open-source material.
Avast analyzed the Linux.Xorddos rootkit in detail in a blog post from January of 2015
(Avast Threat Intelligence Team, 2015). Of particular note was for any LKM to function
properly, its “vermagic” value must match that of the currently installed kernel headers
on the victim’s system.
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 14
This meant that each rootkit would have to be specifically compiled for the victim
system it was deployed on. The Linux.Xorddos rootkit had a solution for this problem
through an online build server that was accessed through a series of HTTP GET
requests, as detailed in Avast’s blog. For the sake of brevity, this report will simply point
out the second GET request because it turned out to be of particular interest. Indeed,
it factored into other portions of this research, as described below.
Let’s look at this second GET request in more detail here. Below you’ll find an attempt
to start to break it down, beginning with the request to “/compiler?”. Note the first three
steps taken were lookup hash of kernel, enter username to build server, enter password: