Operation Overtrap’s Custom Exploit Kit: Bottle Exploit Kit
On September 29, 2019, we observed that the exploit kit ceased to drop a clean file,
and instead, delivered a brand-new banking trojan that we dubbed “Cinobi.” We also
noted that the threat actors behind Operation Overtrap have stopped redirecting victims
from social media and began to use a Japan-targeted malvertising campaign to push
their custom exploit kit.
Another researcher later discovered the custom exploit kit, which was named the Bottle
Exploit Kit (BottleEK). It exploits CVE-2018-15982, a Flash Player use after free
vulnerability, as well as CVE-2018-8174, a VBScript remote code execution
vulnerability. Victims will be infected with BottleEK’s payload if they access this
particular exploit kit’s landing page with unpatched or outdated browsers. Our telemetry
shows that BottleEK was the most active exploit kit detected in Japan in February 2020.
Figure 4. Exploit kit activity observed in Japan on February 2020 (Data obtained from
Trend Micro Smart Protection Network™)
BottleEK performs the following steps during the compromise of an infected machine:

Check if the browser cookie “username” has been set. If it’s set, it will not perform

any action. Otherwise, it will set a “username” cookie with the value “bingv” and
continue the infection. This step aims to filter out victims who have been previously
attacked to prevent a double infection.
Figure 5. Screengrab of code showing the BottleEK script verifying browser cookie
information

Check if the browser is Internet Explorer and if the browser language is set to

Japanese. If not, it will stop the infection.
Figure 6. Screengrab of code showing the BottleEK script checking the infected device’s
browser language and browser version

Check the version of Internet Explorer, Adobe Flash Player, and the architecture of

the infected machine. It then sends the gathered information with an Ajax request to
the exploit kit hosting server in this format:
“/conn.php?callback=?data1={Internet Explorer version}&data2={64 bits or 32 bits
architecture}&data3={Adobe Flash Player version}”.
Figure 7. Screengrab of the BottleEK script sending information of the victim machine
and loading the corresponding exploit

Based on the information received by the exploit kit server, it will return the location

of different exploit codes and instruct the browser to load them accordingly. The
exploits used by BottleEK include CVE-2018-15982, an Adobe Flash exploit, and
CVE-2018-8174, a VBScript engine exploit.
5. After successful exploitation, it will load the malware from the URL
“/conn[.]php?ge=1” and execute it. It is worth noting that if the cookie “username”
set during the first step is not present during the request to load the exploit, the
exploit kit server will return an empty response. This is an anti-crawl feature that
prevents web crawlers from directly grabbing the campaign’s payloads.
An analysis of the shellcodes embedded and executed by the exploits reveals the use
of Metasploit encoders. In the case of 32-bit shellcode, we observed the use of the
Shikata Ga Nai encoder. Meanwhile, the 64-bit shellcode uses XOR dynamic encoder.
Figure 8. Screengrab of shellcode encoded with the “Shikata Ga Nai” encoder
Figure 9. Screengrab of shellcode encoded with the XOR dynamic” encoder
Figure 10. Screengrab showing the Flash exploit containing both 32-bit and 64-bit
shellcodes in one exploit file