Pay2Key – November 2020
In November 2020, a threat actor named Pay2Key conducted ransomware attacks which were
primarily targeted at Israeli companies. The attacker worked fast, succeeding to penetrate companies’
networks by exploiting known vulnerabilities. The attitude of the group towards the victims is
exceptionally “unprofessional”, as the attacker is overly cynical, mocks his victims and in several cases
di not hand over decryption keys after payment.
In this chapter we analyze the toolset of Pay2Key.
TTPs
Attacking Vector
KeyBase – First sign of the campaign infrastructure
In June Pay2Key created their KeyBase account.
The first known Pay2Key ransomware executable compilation date is set to October 26 [th], 2020. A day
later Pay2Key’s KeyBase account had a new key generated:

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
8 | P a g e
On this same date Swascan published the first public report detailing the Pay2Key ransomware [2] . The
report describes attacks in Europe in which, the adversary had access to the systems a week prior to
the encryption, from October 20 [th], 2020.
Initial Entry
The attacker attempts to manually breach organizational systems by exploiting the following
vulnerabilities or vulnerable products:
Microsoft Exchange Server
RDP vulnerabilities and brute forcing RDP server credentials

VPN Vulnerabilities

Establishing a Backdoor Using Reverse Proxy
When investigating one of the attacks, we identified that the attacker utilizes publicly available tools,
such as FRPC [3] or Go Proxy [4], to enable Reverse Proxy [5] in an infected machine.
The configuration file accompanying the FRPC – Reverse Proxy tool was observed in one of the files
uploaded for analysis and research. The organization’s name is encoded in the file:
2 https://www.swascan.com/pay2key/
3 github.com/fatedier/frp
4 github.com/ffay/lanproxy
5 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_proxy

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
9 | P a g e
Moreover, we identified a version of LanProxy written in Go language. Its purpose is the same as the
FRP, this file is used to open a reverse proxy between the compromised machine to the attacker’s C2.
Pay2Key Ransomware
The attacker’s methods of conducting lateral movement across the network and taking control of
additional servers and services is still unclear. However, we have noted that the attacker downloads
two files to the path C:\Windows\Temp[organization-name]tmp\ after obtaining initial access to the
organizational network:
The Pay2Key ransomware: Cobalt.Cobalt.exe
The ransomware’s configuration file: Config.ini
The ransomware is written in C++. Exceptionally, as other ransomware groups encrypt their
ransomware files or at least obfuscate internal strings to make analysis more difficult, Pay2Key
executable is unpacked and strings can be seen in clear text:
The debug data has been left in the executable enabling researchers to observe the ransomware’s
structure and navigate through its functionality. In several instances, the ransomware crashed or failed
to decrypt the files after the victim paid the ransom.
The ransom message in the readme file states that all organization’s files have been encrypted,
demanding a ransom to release them, as it does in all ransomware attacks focused on extortion. If the
ransom is not delivered, the files and any information they contain will be leaked online.
The ransom itself ranged between seven and nine Bitcoin (with a few cases in which the attacker was
negotiated down to three Bitcoin). To pressure victims into paying, Pay2Key’s leak site displays
sensitive information stolen from the target organizations and makes threats of further leaks if the
victims continue to delay payments.

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
10 | P a g e
For more information about the Pay2Key ransomware, please check CheckPoint report [6] .
Command and Control Server Architecture
Pay2Key can operate without being connected to its C2s. the ransomware depends on the C2 servers
to receive information, such as the types of files it should encrypt, the organization’s name, the ransom
message’s contents, and other details.
The ransomware receives the C2s’ IP addresses from its configuration file. In contrast to other
ransomware that usually connect to the C2 directly, Pay2Key initially connects to a single local
computer in the organizational network and designates it to use Reverse Proxy services . This computer
constitutes an intersection between the target network and the C2 servers.
Communication with Pay2Key and Data Leaks
The attacker registered in the Keybase.io service, which enables encrypted communications over the
internet and payments with the Stellar crypto currency. The attacker notably demands payments in
Bitcoin to other wallets despite being registered to a Stellar based platform.
The attacker opened his account in Keybase.io on June 28th, 2020. We believe that this is the date in
which the initial preparations for the attacks began. This profile was then linked to communication
devices and a crypto wallet address by the attacker. At a certain stage of the process, the attacker
added the address of their leak site to their profile:
6 https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/ransomware-alert-pay2key/

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
11 | P a g e
On November 12nd 2020, CheckPoint published their second report regarding Pay2Key [7], the report
describes the creation of a leak site for the Pay2Key ransomware. Ransomware leak sites are a recent
popular trend, all the notoriously famous ransomware groups have one. The leak site of Pay2Key is
anonymized and only accessible via TOR, but we believe it is hosted on AWS EC2 infrastructure.
In the beginning of the operation the leak site was very minimalistic, and it contains only files from
Israeli targets.
Each of the compromised companies has a dedicated ransom note written by the Pay2Key operators.
Here is an example for one of them:
From the wording we can see the adversary is thoroughly inspecting the attacked asset prior to the
encryption. Traditional ransomware groups do that as well in order to achieve maximum efficiency in
7 https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/pay2key-the-plot-thickens/

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
12 | P a g e
the operation so that the target would have to pay the ransom in order to restore normal operations.
However, at the end of the message we can see that the adversary continued to control the network
even after the encryption was completed and the ransom was paid.
Previous Link to Iran
Check Point published an additional report following the attacker’s possible identity on November
12th . Aided by Whitestream, Check Point surveilled the Bitcoin wallets that received ransom payments
from victims. According to their joint research efforts, the currency was transferred to a mid-point
wallet from which it was transferred again to a wallet associated with an Iranian crypto exchange
named Excoino:
The research report notes that in order to register with the Excoino exchange, a user must provide an
Iranian phone number and Iranian identification means. This supports the assumption that the
attacker (or multiple attackers) possesses an Iranian means of identification. CheckPoint state this as
sufficient ground to attribute the attacks to Iran and identify the attackers as an Iranian attack group.
In our research, we identified that the name and image of the profile lead to a cryptography project
named “EOSIO UTXO”. This project is also named Pay2Key and displays an identical profile image:

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
13 | P a g e
The purpose of this project is to manufacture “smart contracts” based on the EOS crypto currency
Blockchain.

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White
14 | P a g e