Notable Activity
consistence or expertise in certain other areas. For example, the re-use of C2
domains ending in .tw certainly sticks out in target environments unrelated
to Taiwan. This was observed in attacks against western aerospace and
defense companies during 2014.
Recent CrowdStrike analysis on PITTY PANDA has revealed that this actor
has been operating for a longer time frame than previously assumed.
The activity likely goes back as far as June 2005, resulting in a total
operational window of more than nine years. PITTY PANDA has used at least
three different RAT families, some of which have undergone continuous
development.
PITTY PANDA has recently shifted their target profile toward the aerospace
and defense sectors, introducing a new aspect this actor’s operations.
The overall goal of much of PITTY PANDA’s past activity appeared to be
intelligence-gathering operations of a political nature, but more recent
operation point more toward the theft of intellectual property. The
development and adaptation of client-side exploits such as CVE-2014-1761
may indicate that this actor is seeking to further expand operations by
investing in technical capabilities to pursue harder targets than they have
previously attacked.
Event-Driven Operations
Malaysia Airlines Incidents
Malaysia Airlines suffered two catastrophic incidents in 2014. In March, one of
its flights (MH370) from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing mysteriously disappeared
less than an hour after takeoff. In July, another of its flights (MH17) from
Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was shot down while flying over a conflict zone
in Ukraine. These events received large amounts of attention in the press,
and the controversy and mystery surrounding them made the incidents ideal
for targeted intrusion adversaries to use in their operations.
Operations leveraging the MH370 incident in spear phish email began within
days of the accident. The TEMPER PANDA adversary was particularly prolific
in its use of MH370-related emails to deliver malicious documents that
39