Data Leaks
Data leaks have always been problematic for companies across industries. The oil and gas industry, in
particular, is very competitive and almost any kind of leaked information can be beneficial to a competitor.
Data leaks can also cause substantial damage to a company’s reputation. It has been said for decades
that data should be carefully handled inside companies, yet this is not enough. Outside monitoring should
be put in place as well.
What happens when data that is carefully handled internally is sent to an outside partner? What happens
when a company uses unfamiliar tools and software? What happens when a company does not know that
the software shares files on remote servers? And what happens when those files are stored on unsecure
external networks, in some cases becoming freely accessible even to anyone who knows the data is
there? Needless to say, these are serious issues that should be considered by all companies.
In the course of our research, we easily found dozens of sensitive documents related to the oil industry
online. One way of finding these documents is by using specially crafted Google queries, called Google
Dorks. We will not show any of these search engine queries in this research paper since the matter is very
sensitive and we do not want to help cybercriminals. Some redacted examples of data we could retrieve
are below.
Another way to find such content is to hunt for data on public services like Pastebin, an online service that
allows anyone to copy and paste any text-based content and store it there, privately or publicly. Another
source of data is public sandboxes meant for analysis of suspicious files. Users can mistakenly send
legitimate documents to these sandboxes for analysis. Once uploaded, these documents can be parsed
or downloaded by third parties.
12 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
These are several common security lapses that companies should correct in regard to document storage:


Documents are stored on a web server in a folder that is world-readable.


Documents are stored on a file server without proper access control.


Documents are backed up on an unsecure server accessible to anyone.


While it is not a problem to see official documents that were meant for publication online in different
locations, it becomes problematic when the documents are internal only or require a security clearance.
Those document leaks can affect the “victim” company in several ways:


Affects one or several company employees


Affects the company’s public image


Leaks nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) or contracts signed between a company and a third party


Leaks information that can be leveraged by competitors


Leaks information that can be used legally against the company


Leaks information that can harm long-term projects or road maps


This is particularly significant in the energy industry, where most information is usually kept internal.
Figure 2. A sampling report sent from a private laboratory to an oil company
An example is a full document we recently found sent from a laboratory to an oil company, providing the
exact location, ship name, and results for particular oil particles (SN100, SN150) hunting. Information on
a potential contamination is confidential and sensitive for any company in the oil and gas industry and
should not be publicly available.
13 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry