Crowdstrike Global Intelligence Team
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CrowdStrike has been tracking the activity of a cyber espionage group operating out of Shanghai,
China, with connections to the People’s Liberation Army Third General Staff Department (GSD) 12th
Bureau Military Unit Cover Designator (MUCD) 61486, since 2012. The attribution provided in this report
points to Chen Ping, aka cpyy (born on May 29, 1979), as an individual responsible for the domain
registration for the Command and Control (C2) of PUTTER PANDA malware. In addition to cpyy, the
report identifies the primary location of Unit 61486.
PUTTER PANDA is a determined adversary group, conducting intelligence-gathering operations
targeting the Government, Defense, Research, and Technology sectors in the United States, with
specific targeting of the US Defense and European satellite and aerospace industries. The PLA’s GSD
Third Department is generally acknowledged to be China’s premier Signals Intelligence (SIGINT)
collection and analysis agency, and the 12th Bureau Unit 61486, headquartered in Shanghai,
supports China’s space surveillance network.
Domains registered by Chen Ping were used to control PUTTER PANDA malware. These domains were
registered to an address corresponding to the physical location of the Shanghai headquarters of
12th Bureau, specifically Unit 61486. The report illuminates a wide set of tools in use by the actors,
including several Remote Access Tools (RATs). The RATs are used by the PUTTER PANDA actors to
conduct intelligence-gathering operations with a significant focus on the space technology sector.
This toolset provides a wide degree of control over a victim system and can provide the
opportunity to deploy additional tools at will. They focus their exploits against popular productivity
applications such as Adobe Reader and Microsoft Office to deploy custom malware through
targeted email attacks.
This report contains additional details on the tactics, tools, and techniques used by PUTTER PANDA,
and provides indicators and signatures that can be leveraged by organizations to protect
themselves against this activity.
4
