05 06 07 08 09
Adopt Zero Trust
As adversaries want to monetize their activity, they target their victim’s data seeking
payoffs through ransom and extortion, and will even auction data to the highest
bidder. Because today’s global economy requires data to be accessible from
anywhere at any time, it is critical to adopt a Zero Trust model. The CrowdStrike
Zero Trust solution connects the machine to the identity and the data to deliver full
Zero Trust protection.
Monitor the Criminal Underground
Adversaries congregate to collaborate using a variety of hidden messaging
platforms and dark web forums. In addition to monitoring your own environment,
security teams must be vigilant and monitor activity within the criminal underground.
Leverage digital risk monitoring tools like Falcon X Recon to monitor imminent
threats to your brand, identities or data. Get advance warnings of active threats and
use this visibility to prevent data leak incidents and costly ransomware attacks.
Eliminate Misconfigurations
The most common causes of cloud intrusions continue to be human errors such as
omissions introduced during common administrative activities. It’s important to set
up new infrastructure with default patterns that make secure operations easy to
adopt. This strategy ensures that new accounts are set up in a predictable manner,
eliminating common sources of human error. Also, make sure to set up roles and
network security groups that keep developers and operators from needing to build
their own security profiles and accidentally doing it poorly.
Invest in Elite Threat Hunting
CrowdStrike has observed that 62% of attacks comprise non-malware, hands-on
keyboard activity. As adversaries advance their tradecraft in this manner to bypass
legacy security solutions, autonomous machine learning alone is not good enough to
stop dedicated attackers. The combination of technology with expert threat hunters
is absolutely mandatory to see and stop the most sophisticated threats. Top-quality
managed services such as Falcon Complete and Falcon OverWatch can help you
close the growing cyber skills gap with the expertise, resources and coverage
needed to augment your team.
Build a Cybersecurity Culture
While technology is clearly critical in the fight to detect and stop intrusions, the
end user remains a crucial link in the chain to stop breaches. User awareness
programs should be initiated to combat the continued threat of phishing and
related social engineering techniques. For security teams, practice makes perfect.
Encourage an environment that routinely performs table top exercises and red/
blue teaming to identify gaps and eliminate weaknesses in your cybersecurity
practices and response.
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 29
About CrowdStrike
CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. (Nasdaq: CRWD), a global cybersecurity leader, has
redefined modern security with the world’s most advanced cloud-native platform
for protecting critical areas of enterprise risk-endpoints and cloud workloads,
identity and data.
Powered by the CrowdStrike Security Cloud and world-class AI, the CrowdStrike
Falcon® platform leverages real-time indicators of attack, threat intelligence,
evolving adversary tradecraft and enriched telemetry from across the enterprise
to deliver hyper-accurate detections, automated protection and remediation, elite
threat hunting and prioritized observability of vulnerabilities.
Purpose-built in the cloud with a single lightweight-agent architecture, the
Falcon platform delivers rapid and scalable deployment, superior protection and
performance, reduced complexity and immediate time-to-value.
CrowdStrike
We stop breaches.
Learn more
www.crowdstrike.com
Follow us:
Blog | Twitter | LinkedIn | Facebook | Instagram
Start a free trial today:
www.crowdstrike.com/free-trial-guide/
© 2022 CrowdStrike, Inc. All rights reserved. CrowdStrike, the falcon logo, CrowdStrike Falcon
and CrowdStrike Threat Graph are marks owned by CrowdStrike, Inc. and registered with
the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and in other countries. CrowdStrike owns
other trademarks and service marks, and may use the brands of third parties to identify their
products and services.
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 30
CrowdStrike
Products
and Services
Endpoint Security
FALCON XDR™ | EXTENDED DETECTION AND RESPONSE (XDR)
Supercharges detection and response across your entire security stack by
synthesizing multi-domain telemetry in one unified, threat-centric command console
FALCON INSIGHT™ | ENDPOINT DETECTION AND RESPONSE (EDR)
Delivers continuous, comprehensive endpoint visibility and automatically detects and
intelligently prioritizes malicious activity to ensure nothing is missed and potential
breaches are stopped
FALCON PREVENT™ | NEXT-GENERATION ANTIVIRUS
Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated
attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints
FALCON FIREWALL MANAGEMENT™ | HOST FIREWALL
Delivers simple, centralized host firewall management, making it easy to manage and
control host firewall policies
FALCON DEVICE CONTROL™ | USB DEVICE VISIBILITY AND CONTROL
Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB
devices across your organization
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 31
Threat Intelligence
FALCON X™ | AUTOMATED INTELLIGENCE
Enriches the events and incidents detected by the CrowdStrike Falcon® platform,
automating intelligence so security operations teams can make better, faster
decisions
FALCON X PREMIUM™ | CYBER THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Delivers world-class intelligence reporting, technical analysis, malware analysis
and threat hunting capabilities, enabling organizations to build cyber resiliency and
more effectively defend against sophisticated nation-state, eCrime and hacktivist
adversaries
FALCON X RECON™ | DIGITAL RISK MONITORING
Monitors potentially malicious activity across the open, deep and dark web, enabling
you to better protect your brand, employees and sensitive data
FALCON SANDBOX™ | MALWARE ANALYSIS
Uncovers the full malware attack lifecycle with in-depth insight into all file, network,
memory and process activity, and provides easy-to-understand reports, actionable
IOCs and seamless integration
Managed Services
FALCON OVERWATCH™ | MANAGED THREAT HUNTING
Partners you with a team of elite cybersecurity experts to hunt continuously within
the Falcon platform for faint signs of sophisticated intrusions, leaving attackers
nowhere to hide
FALCON COMPLETE™ | MANAGED DETECTION AND RESPONSE (MDR)
Stops and eradicates threats in minutes with 24/7 expert management, monitoring
and surgical remediation, backed by the industry’s strongest Breach Prevention
Warranty
Cloud Security
FALCON CLOUD WORKLOAD PROTECTION™
Provides comprehensive breach protection across private, public, hybrid and multi
cloud environments, allowing customers to rapidly adopt and secure technology
across any workload
FALCON HORIZON™ | CLOUD SECURITY POSTURE MANAGEMENT
Streamlines cloud posture management across the application lifecycle for multi
cloud environments, enabling you to securely deploy applications in the cloud with
greater speed and efficiency
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 32
Security and IT Operations
FALCON DISCOVER™ | IT HYGIENE
Identifies unauthorized accounts, systems and applications anywhere in your
environment in real time, enabling faster remediation to improve your overall security
posture
FALCON SPOTLIGHT™ | VULNERABILITY MANAGEMENT
Offers security teams an automated, comprehensive vulnerability management
solution, enabling faster prioritization and improved remediation workflows without
resource-intensive scans
FALCON FILEVANTAGE™ | FILE INTEGRITY MONITORING
Provides real-time, comprehensive and centralized visibility that boosts compliance
and offers relevant contextual data
FALCON FORENSICS™ | FORENSIC CYBERSECURITY
Automates collection of point-in-time and historic forensic triage data for robust
analysis of cybersecurity incidents
Identity Protection
FALCON IDENTITY THREAT DETECTION
Delivers the industry’s best real-time, identity-based attack detection and prevention,
incorporating behavioral, risk, identity and hundreds of other analytics to stop
credential compromise and identity store attacks
FALCON IDENTITY THREAT PROTECTION
Enables frictionless Zero Trust security with real-time threat prevention and IT policy
enforcement using identity, behavioral and risk analytics to stop breaches for any
endpoint, workload or identity
Log Management
HUMIO | OBSERVABILITY AND LOG MANAGEMENT
Humio offers an advanced, purpose-built log management platform that lets
organizations log everything to answer anything in real time. Humio enables complete
observability for all streaming logs and event data, and helps better prepare for the
unknown by making it easy to explore and find the root cause of any incident.
Services
CROWDSTRIKE SERVICES | IR AND PROACTIVE
Delivers pre- and post-incident response (IR) services 24/7 to support you before,
during or after a breach, with skilled teams to help you defend against and respond
to security incidents, prevent breaches and optimize your speed to remediation