The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control maintains targeted programs that can be brought to bear against international entities that augment Iran’s capacity for surveillance against its population.
Where sanctions are appropriate, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
maintains targeted programs that can be brought
to bear against international entities that augment
Iran’s capacity for surveillance against its population
(Executive Order 13606 [146] ) and those responsible for
54     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
cyber operations against American infrastructure (Executive Order 13694). [147] Sanctions
and other financial mechanisms could be used to deter foreign countries or other actors
from providing support to Iranian offensive cyber operations. Executive Order 13606
offers an example in its authority to designate any entity, whether in Iran or elsewhere,
that has facilitated the Iranian government in its “computer and network disruption,
monitoring, and tracking.” While the order focuses on human rights, similar language
could focus on Tehran’s attacks against critical infrastructure and espionage. The narrowly
tailored extension of these authorities could help ensure that Iran’s cyber operations do
not benefit from technology transfers or foreign assistance as Tehran expands its security
and commercial ties, especially to countries such as Russia and China.
Additionally, the Justice Department has issued indictments against Iranians implicated
in disruptive campaigns (the same individuals allegedly responsible for Operation Ababil
were also designated under Executive Order 13694) and has successfully obtained the
extradition from a third country of a hacker involved in the theft of military secrets. [148]
Because of the small operational footprint of the groups, targeted sanctions or legal proceedings are more symbolic than disruptive, but few other opportunities exist to impose
consequences on individuals who participate in operations.
Given the level of rudimentary nature of its cyber operations, a purely political or legal
response that is focused solely on deterring Iran would be ineffective toward addressing
national cybersecurity risks. Any system that can be breached by Iranian groups is equally
susceptible to others with similar sets of motivations, notably North Korea and Hamas.
An effective policy response to the threats posed by Iran must focus on securing critical
infrastructure overall.
Information sharing has been one of the most common strategies pursued by the United
States, Europe, and the private sector to reduce the effectiveness of Iranian cyber operations. After the Aramco attack, the United States used its superiority in monitoring and
attributing Iranian activities to strengthen intelligence relationships with its Arab allies
in the Persian Gulf. [149] This is an immensely valuable resource that should be extended
where possible, and further support can be provided to regional allies. Similarly, the FBI
has provided notifications to and facilitated information sharing with the private sector
on specific Iranian campaigns. These efforts can be expanded to include more partners
and to provide data to civil society organizations.
Unlike traditional security issues, private individuals are more exposed to cyber operations owing to the transnational and virtual nature of threats. This brings in more
stakeholders, and increases the burden on individuals to protect themselves from crime
and espionage. Responsibility to protect those users rests equally on the private sector
and governments. Fortunately, internet platforms and communications services, like
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    55
Facebook and Google, have played a positive role in providing the tools to help individuals defend against attacks—even going so far as notifying users when they have been
targeted by state-aligned campaigns, including those from Iran. These initiatives raise the
bar for attackers and should be seen within tech companies as a core obligation of keeping at-risk users safe.
Discussions about securing dissidents would be incomplete without highlighting the
pioneering role of the United States government and European development agencies
in providing secure communications tools to activists—often referred to as the Internet
Freedom agenda. Government funding has provided early stage investment for researchers and developers to produce prototypes and deployable products to protect activists and
civil society that would not be the focus of the private sector. A significant proportion, if
not majority, of Iranians that bypass the censorship regime do so using safe and reliable
tools funded by the State Department and Broadcasting Board of Governors. Both have
also supported the development of encryption tools such as Signal that have even been
adopted by tech companies within their own messaging applications, demonstrating the
importance of Internet Freedom as a public-private cooperation.
The United States and European Union should continue to promote programs and
norms on internet access and cybersecurity that prioritize the free and secure flow of
information against challenges from countries such as Iran, China, and Russia. Aside
from funding for civil society, this includes promotion of democratic values within
internet governance frameworks, such as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names
and Numbers (ICANN) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). This
also highlights the importance of domestic policy on Internet Freedom efforts: proposals
to weaken information security products such as encrypted messaging applications would
harm individuals in countries where rule of law is weak and backdoor access in commu
nications networks is commonly repurposed for repression.
As the history of Iranian offensive cyber operations demonstrates, the same actors
responsible for espionage against the private sector engage in surveillance of human
rights defenders, and with considerably more success, owing to the targets’ resource
constraints. These at-risk communities provide a canary for the tactics and tools that
will be employed against other targets, and increased information exchange will enable
more effective education and mitigation strategies for all. Policymakers have long understood that the changes that will lead Iran to be a productive member of the international
community will come from within. The safety and security of the Iranian civil society
organizations and democratic voices targeted by government cyber operations should
be recognized and protected as the critical stakeholders within cybersecurity and foreign
policy discussions that they are.
56     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT