Internal Servers Compromised
Lateral movements and intelligence collection continue, while attackers also target and compromise additional internal hosts and
servers that will be used during the actual heist.
Between Day 30 to 46, over a period of 17 days, a series of archives were created containing manuals, guides and training materials
for different applications. The information gathered was archived and organized in different folders. This information was relevant
in planning the attack on the bank and, potentially, other banks that share similar systems. The cybercriminal group could be
actively improving its understanding of internal banking systems by collecting and studying this type of information, in an attempt
to make their attacks more efficient and stealthier. Their specialization in compromising banking infrastructures could be a direct
consequence of intelligence collected and assimilated after each attack on previous financial institutions. This level of intimate
knowledge of how banking applications work based on stolen documentation, helps them quickly achieve their purpose, which is
to access and transfer financial assets. The more information they have on the inner workings of banking applications, the easier it
becomes to pull off surgical cyber heists and avoid security tripwires.
Day 30 A series of archives were created containing manuals, guides and training materials for different applications.
The information gathered was archived and organized in different folders.
Day 33 Attackers connected to servers and hosts with access to banking applications. The connections were initiated
from workstations that had activity after regular office hours.
Day 33 to 46 A series of archives were created containing manuals, guides and training materials for different applications.
The information gathered was archived and organized in different folders.
[6]
White Paper
Day 46 to 63 Using a compromised domain administrator account, attackers remotely dial into various network workstations
and ultimately remove the archives used to store the baking materials, to cover their tracks
Starting on Day 33, attackers connected to servers and hosts with access to banking applications. The connections were initiated
from workstations that had activity after regular office hours.
The workstations used to connect to these machines were logged in from and controlled by a workstation that was not part of the
legitimate corporate infrastructure. The system belonged to the adversary and accessed the organization network through a VPN
tunnel established by the Cobalt Strike beacon component, to contact the internal corporate network systems.
These command & control connections last between 20 minutes and one hour on average, based on the logs available for forensic
investigation. The documents prepared for exfiltration, which were relevant to the internal applications, as well as the connections
to banking applications after regular office hours, point to a financially motivated attack.
Below is a complete lateral movement timeline that includes all major events related to what infrastructure assets were compromised
and when. Marked in red are the three major milestones achieved during the attack: the moment the domain controller was
compromised, the moment documents started being stored on an internal endpoint, and when the threat actors first connected to
a host with access to banking applications .
This lateral movement timeline was compiled based on forensic evidence correlated from several analyzed systems and network
events. It is the most relevant blueprint, revealing a complete attack timeline and behavior of the notorious financial cyber-criminal
group when inside an infrastructure belonging to a financial organization.