Our discovery: a sophisticated implant within UEFI firmware
The UEFI implant, which was detected in spring 2021, was found to have been incorporated by the
attackers into the CORE_DXE component of the firmware (also known as the DXE Foundation), which
is called early on at the DXE (Driver Execution Environment) phase of the UEFI boot sequence. Among
other things, this component is responsible for initializing essential data structures and function
interfaces, one of which is the EFI Boot Services Table – a set of pointers to routines that are part of the
CORE_DXE image itself and are callable by other DXE drivers in the boot chain.
The source of the infection starts with a set of hooks that intercept the execution of several functions in
the EFI Boot Services Table, namely AllocatePool, CreateEventEx and ExitBootServices. Those hooks are
used to divert the flow of these functions to malicious shellcode that is appended by the attackers to the
CORE_DXE image, which in turn sets up additional hooks in subsequent components of the boot chain,
namely the Windows loader.
This multistage chain of hooks facilitates the propagation of malicious code from the CORE_DXE image
to other boot components during system startup, allowing the introduction of a malicious driver to the
memory address space of the Windows kernel. This driver, which runs during the initial phases of the
kernel’s execution, is in charge of deploying user-mode malware by injecting it into an svchost.exe
process, once the operating system is up and running. Finally, the user mode malware reaches out to a
hardcoded C&C URL (i.e. hxxp://mb.glbaitech[.]com/mboard.dll) and attempts to fetch another stage of
the payload to run in memory, which we were not able to retrieve.
https://securelist.com/moonbounce-the-dark-side-of-uefi-firmware/105468/ 2/17
1/21/22, 9:00 PM MoonBounce: the dark side of UEFI firmware | Securelist
The diagram below contains the outline of the stages taken from the moment the hooked Boot Services
are called in the context of the DXE Foundation’s execution until the user-mode malware is deployed
and run during the Operating System’s execution. The full description of each step in the diagram, along
with the analysis of both the MoonBounce driver and user-mode malware can be found in the technical
document released alongside this report.
Flow of MoonBounce execution from boot sequence to malware deployment in user
space
Note that at the time of writing we lack sufficient evidence to retrace how the UEFI firmware was
infected in the first place. The infection itself, however, is assumed to have occurred remotely. While
previous UEFI firmware compromises (i.e. LoJax and MosaicRegressor) manifested as additions of DXE
drivers to the overall firmware image on the SPI flash, the current case exhibits a much more subtle and
stealthy technique where an existing firmware component is modified to alter its behaviour. Notably,
particular functions were modified with an inline hook, meaning the replacement of the function
prologue with an instruction to divert execution to a function chosen by the attacker. This form of binary
instrumentation typically requires the attacker to obtain the original image, then parse and change it to
introduce malicious logic. This would be possible for an attacker having ongoing and remote access to
the targeted machine.