Cashout schemas
Previously, it should be noted the fact that the
process of stolen money withdrawal (cashout) was
differed, firstly by the theft method, secondly by the
victim type (a bank or a payment system), thirdly by
the total stolen sum.
The victims by their type were divided rather by
counterparty types and by limitations imposed by
operation with the counterparties. For example, all
payments were required to go through a certain pool
of mediators. In addition, the “improper” pool of
counterparties could cause suspicion and unnecessary testing (manual processing of payment orders).
Bank (amounts up to 100 million roubles):


When the attackers had obtained control of a
bank operator workstation (attacker purpose),
they in general used a classic tree scheme when
funds from the bank account were sent to several
legal entities, then from each legal entity to
smaller legal entities (may be several such iterations) and then to private person credit cards
(from 600 to 7000 transactions).


When the attackers had obtained control of ATM
management service (attacker purpose), money
were withdrawn directly from the ATM by the attacker command. In this case the whole cashout
process consisted in that a drop person had to be
near the ATM at the specified time with a bag to
empty the dispenser.


Bank (amounts from 100 million roubles):

Money was sent to accounts of other banks, and
cracked banks were often used where accounts
and credit cards had been prepared in advance.

Payment system:

In addition to all the above methods, cash
sending channels were also employed through
the settlements systems, electronic wallets and
payment systems, such as web money, Yandex

10
Money, QIWI (1500-2000 transactions). Revenues of large amounts (up to 50 million roubles)
were recorded to particular cards of private persons who then used these cards to buy expensive
small-sized goods such as jewelry, watches, and
other attributes. A huge part of the money was
sent through mobile operators (1500-2000 SIM
cards prepared in advance).

In spring 2014 (high time of this fraud type) 2
cashout person groups were known who supported target attacks, by autumn 2014 their number
