FINANCIAL INDUSTRY ATTACKS WITH SERVHELPER
Pivoting on indicators and behaviours
observed in the US-based retail attacks
and TA505 activity, a campaign targeting
financial organizations was identified as
active between December 2018 and March
2019. Based on the email and document lures
detected thus far, this campaign has targeted
financial institutions in Chile, India, Italy,
Malawi, Pakistan and South Korea at least,
with similar sample submissions originating
from China, Great Britain, France and the
United States potentially indicating a more
widespread campaign.
Utilising somewhat minimal email lures (Figure
12/Figure 13/Figure 14), often purporting to
relate to payments, victims are enticed into
opening the attached weaponised Microsoft
Excel spreadsheet.
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
9
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
10
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
Unlike the US-based retail campaign, the spreadsheet lure does not contain VBA macros and
instead spawns a Microsoft Windows Installer process (Figure 18) to download an additional
payload from the threat actor’s command and control (C2) infrastructure.
#3
msiexec.exe
#1
Sample Start
excel.exe
Figure 18 – Execution flow
11
CyberInt Copyright © All Rights Reserved 2019
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS
This behaviour is consistent with other TA505 campaigns utilising a combination of weaponised
Microsoft Office files containing either VBA macros or exploit code to spawn additional processes.
Of the spreadsheet lures analysed in this campaign, four different C2 servers and payloads were
identified, with each likely being unique to a specific target organization or victim cluster (Figure 19).
In addition to specifying the remote package to install, using the ‘/i’ command line option, the quiet ‘/q’
option ensures that the installation is performed in the background without displaying any user interface
(UI) elements to the victim. Additionally, variables are passed to the installation package with ‘OnLoad’ being
present in all cases along with either ‘serf’ and ‘done’ or ‘val’ and ‘rdp’. Whilst the nature of these variables
has not been determined, they may influence or modify the installation of the specified MSI file.
C2 Server Theme
The C2 domains observed in this campaign
share a common ‘Microsoft Office 365’ theme,
presumably in an attempt to thwart casual
analysis by appearing legitimate to the
untrained eye. Given this theme, pivots on DNS
Whois data can be used to identify additional
ServHelper
Having downloaded and installed the MSI installation
package, an executable is dropped that spawns numerous
processes and commences the installation of ‘ServHelper’,
a threat reportedly developed using ‘Delphi’ and first
identified in November 2018.
Upon execution, further confirmation that the threat was
LEGIT REMOTE ADMIN TOOLS TURN INTO THREAT ACTORS’ TOOLS