Persistence
Once Flax Typhoon can access Windows Management Instrumentation command-line
(WMIC), PowerShell, or the Windows Terminal with local administrator privileges, the
actor establishes a long-term method of accessing the compromised system using the
remote desktop protocol (RDP). To accomplish this, the actor disables network-level
authentication (NLA) for RDP, replaces the Sticky Keys binary, and establishes a VPN
connection.
When using RDP, NLA requires the connecting user to authenticate to the remote system
before a full remote session is established and the Windows sign-in screen is displayed.
When NLA is disabled, any user attempting to access the remote system can interact with
the Windows sign-in screen before authenticating, which can expose the remote system
to malicious actions by the connecting user. Flax Typhoon changes a registry key to
disable NLA, allowing them to access the Windows sign-in screen without authenticating,
whereupon the actor will use the Sticky Keys shortcut.
Figure 2. Flax Typhoon command disabling NLA
Sticky Keys is an accessibility feature in Windows that allows users to press modifier keys
(such as Shift, Ctrl, Alt ) one at a time instead of simultaneously. It includes a shortcut
where the user can press the Shift key five times in succession to launch sethc.exe, the
program that manages Sticky Keys. The user can invoke this shortcut at any time,
including at the sign-in screen. To take advantage of this feature, Flax Typhoon changes
a registry key that specifies the location of sethc.exe . The actor adds arguments that
cause the Windows Task Manager to be launched as a debugger for sethc.exe . As a
result, when the actor uses the Sticky Keys shortcut on the Windows sign-in screen, Task
Manager launches with local system privileges.
Figure 3. Flax Typhoon command altering Sticky Keys behavior
At this stage, Flax Typhoon can access the compromised system via RDP, use the Sticky
Keys shortcut at the sign-in screen, and access Task Manager with local system
privileges. From there, the actor can launch the Terminal, create memory dumps, and
take nearly any other action on the compromised system. The only issue the actor faces
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/08/24/flax-typhoon-using-legitimate-software-to-quietly-access-taiwanese-organizations/ 3/12
6/25/24, 2:53 PM Flax Typhoon using legitimate software to quietly access Taiwanese organizations | Microsoft Security Blog
with this persistence method is that RDP is most likely running on an internal-facing
network interface. Flax Typhoon’s solution is to install a legitimate VPN bridge to
automatically connect to actor-controlled network infrastructure.