TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted
upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the
particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing
herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro
reserves the right to modify the contents of this document
at any time without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy
is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise
related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to
the original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
Published by:
Trend Micro Research
Written by:
Joey Chen, Hiroyuki Kakara,
and Masaoki Shoji
Stock image used under licensed from
Shutterstock.com
We have been observing cyberespionage group TICK
since 2008, but we noticed unusual active deployments
after we started to monitor their activities more closely
towards the end of 2018. By the first half of 2019, we found
that the group was able to zero in on specific industries
in Japan from which it could steal proprietary information
and classified data. We named this campaign “Operation
ENDTRADE,” based on its targets.
Analysis of their attacks revealed that they have come up
with new malware families capable of evading detection,
obfuscation, and escalation of administrative privileges
for subsequent attacks to go along with the deployment
of previously used malware and modified tools. They
have also incorporated techniques and mechanisms for
detecting specific cybersecurity products and processes,
as well as attempt to terminate a Trend Micro product’s
process. Further, the use of legitimate email accounts
and credentials to deliver the malware payload, as well as
language targeting to increase the accuracy of malware
delivery, makes it more effective against unprepared
targets. The combination of these schemes — especially
when they are continuously refined — could significantly
affect the sectors identified as potential victims. It could
also endanger people, turning it into an issue of safety.
This research paper provides technical details and analysis
based on our observation of Operation ENDTRADE.