MM RAT ( AKA T ROJ /G OLDSUN -B)
Alarms in our sandbox system, triggered by the Troj/Goldsun-B malware
The “release.tmp” file is dropped on the system:
1 MD5 hash: 728d6d3c98b17de3261eaf76b9c3eb7a
Public release
Threat Intelligence
“The Eye of the Tiger” Page : 23/58
Copyright © 2014 Airbus Defence & Space - All rights reserved
Operation Pitty Tiger – “The Eye of the Tiger”
File dropped by the malware in our sandbox
The binary is also copied to the user’s “Application Data” directory, and injects the “release.tmp” file
It starts resolving its domains after injection, and immediately sends requests. First requests are
used to check for updates (GET request on /httpdocs/update/update.ini). A Hello packet is then sent:
Public release
Threat Intelligence
“The Eye of the Tiger” Page : 24/58
Copyright © 2014 Airbus Defence & Space - All rights reserved
Operation Pitty Tiger – “The Eye of the Tiger”
Our sample uses “ mca.avstore.com.tw ”, “ star.yamn.net ” and “ bz.kimoo.com.tw ” as c&c servers. It
contains the “1.6.0” version number, and uses the password “9ol.8ik,” to authenticate with the bots.
Unlike others c&c binaries, the c&c part of this RAT does not have a graphical interface, but can be
remotely requested to manage the bots. Furthermore, no authentication is required to send
commands to the c&c (but you need to know the configured password to interact with the bots).
The management protocol is the same as the bots protocol, with different CGI files:
  - Shutdown: shutdown the c&c

  - Cnor: add a new command for a bot (writes it in “ComMand.sec”)

  - Mlist: get the list of bots

  - Mlist2: write the list of bots to the file “Online.dat”

Public release
Threat Intelligence
“The Eye of the Tiger” Page : 25/58
Copyright © 2014 Airbus Defence & Space - All rights reserved
Operation Pitty Tiger – “The Eye of the Tiger”
The bots’ answers to remote commands can be retrieved by requesting the “Reply.sec” file (e.g.
GET /httpdocs/mm//Reply.sec)
Network patterns
These network patterns might ring bells in some researcher’s minds. The network communication
used by this binary are the same as those used by the Enfal malware, which has been used in the
past by the Lurid group (APT attackers) and by other threat actors in China [1] .
An examination of the code did not reveal code similarities with the Enfal malware. We do not
currently know why this malware uses the same patterns to communicate.