Global reach: Longhorn’s operations
While active since at least 2011, with some evidence of activity dating back as far as 2007,
Longhorn first came to Symantec’s attention in 2014 with the use of a zero-day exploit (CVE2014-4148) embedded in a Word document to infect a target with Plexor.
The malware had all the hallmarks of a sophisticated cyberespionage group. Aside from access
to zero-day exploits, the group had preconfigured Plexor with elements that indicated prior
knowledge of the target environment.
To date, Symantec has found evidence of Longhorn activities against 40 targets spread across 16
different countries. Symantec has seen Longhorn use four different malware tools against its
targets: Corentry, Plexor, Backdoor.Trojan.LH1, and Backdoor.Trojan.LH2.
Before deploying malware to a target, the Longhorn group will preconfigure it with what appears
to be target-specific code words and distinct C&C domains and IP addresses for communications
back to the attackers. Longhorn tools have embedded capitalized code words, internally
referenced as “groupid” and “siteid”, which may be used to identify campaigns and victims. Over
40 of these identifiers have been observed, and typically follow the theme of movies, characters,
food, or music. One example was a nod to the band The Police, with the code words REDLIGHT
and ROXANNE used.
Longhorn’s malware has an extensive list of commands for remote control of the infected
computer. Most of the malware can also be customized with additional plugins and modules,
some of which have been observed by Symantec.
Longhorn’s malware appears to be specifically built for espionage-type operations, with detailed
system fingerprinting, discovery, and exfiltration capabilities. The malware uses a high degree of
operational security, communicating externally at only select times, with upload limits on
exfiltrated data, and randomization of communication intervals—all attempts to stay under the
radar during intrusions.
For C&C servers, Longhorn typically configures a specific domain and IP address combination
per target. The domains appear to be registered by the attackers; however they use privacy
services to hide their real identity. The IP addresses are typically owned by legitimate companies
offering virtual private server (VPS) or webhosting services. The malware communicates with
C&C servers over HTTPS using a custom underlying cryptographic protocol to protect
communications from identification.
https://web.archive.org/web/20190222221536/https://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/longhorn-tools-used-cyberespionage-group-linked-vault-7 3/4
3/4/2020 Longhorn: Tools used by cyberespionage group linked to Vault 7 | Symantec Connect Community
Prior to the Vault 7 leak, Symantec’s assessment of Longhorn was that it was a well-resourced
organization which was involved in intelligence gathering operations. This assessment was based
on its global range of targets and access to a range of comprehensively developed malware and
zero-day exploits. The group appeared to work a standard Monday to Friday working week,
based on timestamps and domain name registration dates, behavior which is consistent with
state-sponsored groups.
Symantec’s analysis uncovered a number of indicators that Longhorn was from an Englishspeaking, North American country. The acronym MTWRFSU (Monday Tuesday Wednesday
ThuRsday Friday Saturday SUnday) was used to configure which day of the week malware would
communicate with the attackers. This acronym is common in academic calendars in North
America. Some of the code words found in the malware, such as SCOOBYSNACK, would be
most familiar in North America. In addition to this, the compilation times of tools with reliable
timestamps indicate a time zone in the Americas.