surveillance of domestic and international targets. While the groups are heavily targeting
individuals located in Iran, they’ve also compromised airlines and telecom providers in the
Middle East region, possibly in an attempt to monitor targets’ movements and
communications.
The attackers are part of two separate groups that have a shared interest in targets. One
group, which we call Cadelle, uses Backdoor.Cadelspy, while the other, which we’ve named
Chafer, uses Backdoor.Remexi and Backdoor.Remexi.B. These threats are capable of
opening a back door and stealing information from victims’ computers
The Cadelle and Chafer groups
Symantec telemetry identified Cadelle and Chafer activity dating from as far back as July
2014, however, it’s likely that activity began well before this date. Command-and-control
(C&C) registrant information points to activity possibly as early as 2011, while executable
compilation times suggest early 2012. Their attacks continue to the present day. Symantec
estimates that each team is made up of between 5 and 10 people.
The back door threats that the groups use appear to be custom made. It’s unclear how
Cadelle infects its targets with Backdoor.Cadelspy. However, Chafer has been observed
compromising web servers, likely through SQL injection attacks, to drop Backdoor.Remexi
onto victims’ computers. Chafer then uses Remexi to gather user names and passwords to
help it spread further across the network.
There is evidence to suggest that the two teams may be connected in some way, though we
cannot confirm this. A number of computers experienced both Cadelspy and Remexi
infections within a small time window. In one instance, a computer was compromised with
Backdoor.Cadelspy just minutes after being infected with Backdoor.Remexi. The Cadelle
and Chafer groups also keep the same working hours and focus on similar targets.
However, no sharing of C&C infrastructure between the teams has been observed.
If Cadelle and Chafer are not directly linked, then they may be separately working for a
single entity. Their victim profile may be of interest to a nation state.
The victims
Data from Cadelle’s C&C servers shows that a large number of Backdoor.Cadelspy
infections affected individual users of Iranian internet service providers (ISPs) and hosting
services. This suggests that the majority of victims are based in Iran. There was also a
significant amount of individual targets that used anonymous proxy services to go online.
Reports have shown that many Iranians avail of these services to access sites that are
blocked by the government’s internet censorship measures. Dissidents, activists, and
researchers in the region may use these proxies in an attempt to keep their online activities
private.
Figure 1. Backdoor.Cadelspy infections by region
In terms of targeted organizations, both Cadelle and Chafer seem to be interested in a
similar category of organizations, such as airlines and telecom companies. The affected
organizations we were able to identify are mostly based in the Middle East region in
countries such as Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan, while one organization is located in the US.
Figure 2. Number of unique organizations hit with Backdoor.Cadelspy and Backdoor.Remexi
from July 2014 to October 2015
Our telemetry shows that among more than a dozen entities that experienced Cadelspy and
Remexi infections, four of them were compromised with both of the threats at some stages.
In most instances, victim computers were infected with either Backdoor.Cadelspy or
Backdoor.Remexi, not both. Less than five percent of computers were infected with both
malware families. In one affected organization, there was intermittent activity between the
threats over ten months. A combined total of 60 computers were compromised in another
organization for almost a year.
The malware’s activity on victim computers appears to depend on the targets. One
computer that was infected with both Cadelspy and Remexi was a system that ran a SIM
card editing application. Other compromised computers included those belonging to web
developers, or are file and database servers.
The nature of the victims suggests that Cadelle and Chafer are primarily interested in
tracking individuals in terms of their movements and communications. Compromising
regional telcos and airlines can help the attackers achieve this aim.
Based in Iran?
There are a number of factors in these groups’ campaigns that suggests that the attackers
may be based in Iran. Cadelle and Chafer are most active during the day time within Iran’s
time zone and primarily operate during Iran’s business week (Saturday through Thursday).
Figure 3. Cadelle and Chafer’s activity levels by hour in Iran’s time zone (UTC +3.5)
Additionally, Symantec observed that Backdoor.Cadelspy’s file strings seem to include dates
written in the Solar Hijri calendar, which is used in Iran and Afghanistan. While the Gregorian
calendar marks the current year as 2015, the Solar Hijri calendar states that it is 1394.
When we converted the dates in the file strings from the Solar Hijri calendar to the Gregorian
one, we found that they were close to the compilation times of the executables and also
close to when Cadelle’s targets were initially compromised.
Based on our analysis, we believe that Cadelle and Chafer’s victims are most likely to be of
interest to an Iranian entity. Cadelle and Chafer are by no means the first Iran-based attack
group to appear. Other groups attributed to Iranian attackers, such as Rocket Kitten, have