Terms may be unfamiliar to certain audiences. Therefore,
we have compiled the following glossary of terms
to serve as a reference for readers. For further
information on terminology or report details,
please contact trig@novetta.com .
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the Sony Attack 55
API (Application Programming Interface)
Set of routines and tools for creating software and
applications.
C2 (Command and Control)
Infrastructure used to control malware.
CNO (Computer Network Operations)
Intentional actions taken to improve networks and user
compatibility.
DDoS Attack (Distributed Denial-of-Service)
A type of attack where many compromised systems target
a single system making it unavailable to the intended user.
DNSCALC
Malware used by several APT groups and first profiled
in 2010. Known for the use of DNS lookups for domain
names that would return specific IP addresses used to
calculate the listening port number for the C2 server.
Guardians of Peace (GOP)
The hacker group who claimed to use destructive malware
to attack Sony Pictures Entertainment by releasing
confidential information.
Hangul Word Processor (HWP)
Word processing application created by the South Korean
company Hancom Inc.
IDS (Intrusion Detection Signatures)
A pattern that allows identification of signatures.
Installers
Software that allows applications to run on a computer.
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
UN organization that promotes security and aviation
regulation.
JoongAng Attack
The June 2012 attack on conservative media organization
JoongAng carried out by hacker group IsOne using two
North Korean servers and 17 servers in 10 other countries.
Keylogger
Someone who tracks and notes each keystroke made on a
computer, usually without permission from the user.
Master Boot Record (MBR)
The information located in the first sector of a hard disk.
This identifies where the system is located so that it can be
loaded into the main storage.
Microsoft EMET (Enhanced Mitigation Experience
Toolkit)
A tool that helps prevent software from being exploited by
hackers.
P2P (Peer-to-Peer)
An application that distributes tasks between peers.
PDB (Program Database) Path
A path for storing data about how to identify and remove
information from a program.
Proxy Trojan
A type of Trojan designed to use the victim’s computer as
a proxy server. This allows the attacker to commit illegal
activities from a separate host.
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the Sony Attack 56
RATs (Remote Access Trojans)
A malware program that includes an entry point for
administrative control over a computer. These are usually
invisible to users and are downloaded through platforms
such as online games and email attachments.
RSA (Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman)
An algorithm developed to better factor large numbers.
SMB (Server Message Block)
Used for enabling shared access to files between users on
a network.
Sony Pictures Entertainment (SPE)
An American Entertainment Incorporation and a
supplementary piece of media conglomerate Sony.
Spreaders
Those who try to cause other computers to become
infected with viruses.
Ten Days of Rain Attacks
Attacks that targeted South Korea’s media, financial, and
critical infrastructure targets.
TLS (Transport Layer Security)
Protocols created to provide communications security
over a network.
Totem
An open-source Novetta developed framework for largescale file analysis and triage.
TTPs (Tools, Techniques and Processes)
The extensive and varied toolset which effectively
combines a number of methods for delivering additional
malicious tools, exfiltrating data, and launching
destructive attacks.
Uninstallers
Various utility software that is created to remove parts
from a computer.
VPN (Virtual Private Network)
A network that is created by using the internet to connect
to a private network as a platform for transporting data.
Wipers
A security measure taken to completely erase the data
from a hard disk.
YARA
A tool used by researchers to identify malware samples
based on various patterns and rules.
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the Sony Attack 57
McLean, Virginia – Headquarters
7921 Jones Branch Drive
5th Floor
McLean, VA 22102
Phone: (571) 282-3000
www.novetta.com
www.OperationBlockbuster.com