Asia-Pacific
China—the elephant in the room
The People’s Republic of China is the noisiest threat actor in cyberspace. The reasons for this include
its huge population, a rapidly expanding economy, and a lack of good mitigation strategies on the
part of its targets.
Chinese attacks on the U.S.
The list of successful Chinese compromises is long, and spans the entire globe. Here are some of the
most significant incidents in the U.S.:

Government: By 1999, the U.S. Department of Energy believed that China posed an “acute” threat

to U.S. nuclear security via cyber espionage. [2] By 2009, China apparently stole the plans for the most
advanced U.S. fighter jet, the F-35. [3]

Technology: China hacked Google, Intel, Adobe, and RSA’s SecureID authentication technology—

with which it then targeted Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, and L-3 Communications. [4]

Business and Financial Services: Morgan Stanley, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and numerous

banks have been hacked. [5]

Media: The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, and more have been targeted

by advanced, persistent cyber attacks emanating from China. [6]

Critical Infrastructure: Department of Homeland Security (DHS) reported in 2013 that 23 gas

pipeline companies were hacked (possibly for sabotage), [7] and that Chinese hackers were seen
at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ National Inventory of Dams. [8]
Some of these cyber attacks have given China access to proprietary information such as research and
development data. Others offer Chinese intelligence access to sensitive communications, from senior
government officials to Chinese political dissidents.
2 Gerth, J. & Risen, J. (2 May 1999) “1998 Report Told of Lab Breaches and China Threat,” The New York Times .
3 Gorman, S., Cole, A. & Dreazen, Y. (21 Apr 2009) “Computer Spies Breach Fighter-Jet Project,” The Wall Street Journal .
4 Gross, M.J. (1 Sep 2011) “Enter the Cyber-dragon,” Vanity Fair .
5 Gorman, S. (21 Dec 2011) “China Hackers Hit U.S. Chamber,” Wall Street Journal ; and Ibid .
6 Perlroth, N. (1 Feb 2013) “Washington Post Joins List of News Media Hacked by the Chinese,” and “Wall Street Journal Announces That It,
Too, Was Hacked by the Chinese,” The New York Times .
7 Clayton, M. (27 Feb 2013) “Exclusive: Cyberattack leaves natural gas pipelines vulnerable to sabotage,” The Christian Science Monitor .
8 Gertz, B. (1 May 2013) “Dam! Sensitive Army database of U.S. dams compromised; Chinese hackers suspected,” The Washington Times .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 5
denial-of-service capability. [12] One sophisticated attack on an Indian Navy headquarters allegedly
used a USB vector to bridge the “air-gap” between a compartmentalized, standalone network and
the Internet. [13]

South Korea: The South Korean government has complained for years of Chinese activity on its official

computers, including a 2010 compromise of the personal computers and PDAs belonging to much
of South Korea’s government power structure [14] and a 2011 assault on an Internet portal that held
personal information for 35 million Koreans. [15]

Japan: Here, the target list includes government, military, and high-tech networks. Chinese

cybercriminals have even stolen classified documents. [16]
9 Warren, P. (18 Jan 2006) “Smash and grab, the hi-tech way,” The Guardian .
10 “Espionage Report: Merkel’s China Visit Marred by Hacking Allegations,” (27 Aug 2007) Spiegel .
11 Leppard, D. (31 Jan 2010) “China bugs and burgles Britain,” The Sunday Times .
12 Exclusive cyber threat-related discussions with FireEye researchers.
13 Pubby, M. (01 Jul 2012) “China hackers enter Navy computers, plant bug to extract sensitive data,” The Indian Express .
14 Ungerleider, N. (19 Oct 2010) “South Korea’s Power Structure Hacked, Digital Trail Leads to China.” Fast Company .
15 Mick, J. (28 Jul 2011) “Chinese Hackers Score Heist of 35 Million South Koreans’ Personal Info,” Daily Tech .
16 McCurry, J. (20 Sep 2011) “Japan anxious over defence data as China denies hacking weapons maker,” The Guardian;
and “China-based servers in Japan cyber attacks,” (28 Oct 2011) The Indian Express .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 6

Australia: China allegedly stole the blueprints for the Australian Security Intelligence Organization’s

new $631 million building. [17]

Worldwide: In 2009, Canadian researchers discovered that China controlled a worldwide cyber

espionage network in over 100 countries. [18] In 2010, a Chinese telecommunications firm transmitted
erroneous routing information for 37,000 computer networks, which misrouted some Internet traffic
through China for 20 minutes. The attack exposed data from 8,000 U.S. networks, 1,100 Australian
networks, and 230 French networks. [19]
Chinese cyber tactics
The People’s Republic of China (PRC) is home to 1.35 billion people, or more than four times the
population of the United States. Therefore, China often has the ability to overwhelm cyber defenses with
quantity over quality, just as it did in the Korean War and as it might do in any other type of conflict.
The Chinese malware that FireEye researchers have analyzed is not the most advanced or creative.
But in many circumstances, it has been no less effective. China employs brute-force attacks that are
often the most inexpensive way to accomplish its objectives. The attacks succeed due to the sheer
volume of attacks, the prevalence and persistence of vulnerabilities in modern networks, and a seeming
indifference on the part of the cybercriminals to being caught.
|Reconnaissance|Mailing Lists, Previous Watering Hole Intel,Crawling, Mining Social Networks|
|---|---|
|Weaponization|Masked EXEs to Appear Non-ExecutableFile Formats, Malicious Non-EXE File Formats,Watering Hole Attacks|
|Delivery|Strategic Web Compromises, Spear phish URLsin Email, Weaponized Email Attachments,Webserver compromise via scanning|
|Exploitation|0-Day Browser / Application Vulnerabilities,Social Engineering|
|Installation|Feature Rich, Compact RATs with MinimalEvasion Capabilities (Requires Operator ForLateral Movement)|
|Command andControl (C2)|HTTP with Embedded, Standard Encodings(e.g., XOR), along with Custom Encodings|
|Actions on Objectives|Intelligence Gathering / Economic Espionage,Persistent Access|
|TTP Exemplars|Comment Group|
Table 1: Characteristics of
Chinese cyber attacks
17 “Report: Plans for Australia spy HQ hacked by China,” (28 May 2013) Associated Press.
18 Tracking GhostNet: Investigating a Cyber Espionage Network (29 March 2009) Information Warfare Monitor .
19 Vijayan, J. (18 Nov 2010) “Update: Report sounds alarm on China’s rerouting of U.S. Internet traffic,” Computerworld .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 7
The “Comment Crew,” [20] a prominent example of a Chinese cyber threat actor, is believed to be a
contractor to the PRC government. The Comment Crew is behind many noteworthy attacks, including
Operation Beebus, which targets U.S. aerospace and defense industries. [21]
One important characteristic of the Comment Crew—which puts it definitively in the category of an
advanced persistent threat, or APT—is that it is a bureaucracy. In-depth analysis reveals a small group
of creative and strategic thinkers at the top. One layer down, a larger group of specialists design and
produce malware in an industrial fashion. At the bottom are the foot soldiers—brute-force hackers who
execute orders and wage extended cyber attack campaigns, from network reconnaissance to spear
phishing to data exfiltration. The Comment Crew is so large, in fact, that when the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) decoded one of the group’s stolen caches of information, if printed out, it would
have created a stack of paper taller than a set of encyclopedias. [22]
Such a large bureaucracy helps to explain sometimes-incongruous cybercriminal behavior. A given
piece of malware, for example, may have been written by an expert but incorrectly used later by an
inexperienced foot soldier (such as a poorly written spear phishing email). Understanding this cyber
attack life cycle and its different stages can help cyber defenders recognize and foil an attack. In any
large organization, some processes are less mature than others, and therefore easier to recognize.
Chinese cyber defense
In its own defense, Chinese officials contend that their country is also a target of cyber attacks. In 2006,
the China Aerospace Science & Industry Corporation (CASIC) found spyware on its classified network. [23]
In 2007, the Chinese Ministry of State Security stated that foreign cybercriminals were stealing Chinese
information, with 42 percent of attacks coming from Taiwan and 25 percent from the United States. [24]
In 2009, Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao announced that a cybercriminal from Taiwan had stolen
his upcoming report to the National People’s Congress. [25] In 2013, Edward Snowden, a former system
administrator at the National Security Agency (NSA), published documents suggesting that the U.S.
conducted cyber espionage against China; [26] and the Chinese Computer Emergency Response Team
(CERT) stated that it possessed “mountains of data” on cyber attacks by the U.S. [27]
20 Sanger, D., Barboza, D. & Perlroth, N. (18 Feb 2013) “Chinese Army Unit is seen as tied to Hacking against U.S.” The New York Times .
21 Pidathala, V., Kindlund, D. & Haq, T. (1 Feb 2013) “Operation Beebus,” FireEye.
22 Riley, M. & Lawrence, D. (26 Jul 2012) “Hackers Linked to China’s Army Seen From EU to D.C.,” Bloomberg.
23 “Significant Cyber Incidents Since 2006,” Center for Strategic and International Studies.
24 Ibid .
25 Ibid .
26 Rapoza, K. (22 June 2013) “U.S. Hacked China Universities, Mobile Phones, Snowden Tells China Press,” Forbes .
27 Hille, K. (5 Jun 2013) “China claims ‘mountains of data’ on cyber attacks by US,” Financial Times .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 8
North Korea—the upstart
North and South Korea remain locked in one of the most intractable conflicts on Earth. North Korea
(supported by China) would seem to be stuck in a cyber Stone Age—especially relative to South Korea
(supported by the U.S.)—has the fastest download speeds in the world [28] and will issue its students with
computer tablets instead of books by 2015. [29] Even so, the Internet offers anyone, and any nation, an
asymmetric way to gather intelligence and project national power in cyberspace—and North Korea
appears to have acquired cyber attacks as a new weapon for its arsenal.
In 2009, North Korea launched its first major assault on South Korean and U.S. government websites. The
attack did little damage, but the incident gained wide media exposure. [30] By 2013, however, the threat
actors had matured. A group dubbed the “DarkSeoul Gang” was responsible for at least four years of
high-profile attacks on South Korea. The group’s attacks included a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS)
attack and malicious code that wiped computer hard drives at banks, media, ISPs, telcos, and financial
services companies—overwriting legitimate data with political messages. In the Korean conflict, such
incidents often take place on dates of historical significance, including July 4, the U.S. Independence
Day. [31] Suspected North Korean attacks on U.S. institutions include U.S. military elements based in South
Korea, the U.S.-based Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, and even the White House.
North Korean defectors have described a burgeoning cyberwarfare department of 3,000 personnel,
largely trained in China and Russia. The defectors stressed that North Korea has a growing
fascinationwith cyber attacks as a cost-effective way to compete against its conventionally superior
foes. They believe that North Korea is growing increasingly comfortable and confident in this new
warfare domain, assessing that the Internet is not only vulnerable to attack but that this strategy can
create psychological pressure on the West. Toward this end, North Korea has focused on disconnecting
its important servers from the Internet, while building a dedicated “attack network.” [32]
FireEye researchers have seen a heavy use of spear phishing and the construction of a “watering hole,”
in which an important website is hacked in the hope of compromising the computers of its subsequent
visitors, who usually belong to a certain VIP-profile the attacker is targeting. Some North Korean attacks
have begun to manipulate a victim’s operating system settings and disable their anti-virus software—
techniques that are normally characteristic of Russian cybercriminals. In other words, North Korean
hackers may have learned from or have contracted support in Russia.
Apart from any possible disruption or destruction stemming from cyber attacks, computer network
operations are an invaluable tool for collecting sensitive information, especially when it resides on
government or think-tank networks normally inaccessible from the Internet. North Korea, China, and
Russia are all naturally interested in collecting cyber intelligence that would increase their comparative
advantage in classified information, diplomatic negotiating positions, or future policy changes.
28 McDonald, M. (21 Feb 2011) “Home Internet May Get Even Faster in South Korea,” The New York Times .
29 Gobry, P-E. (5 JUL 2011) “South Korea Will Replace All Paper With Tablets In Schools By 2015,” Business Insider .
30 Choe Sang-Hun, C. & Markoff, J. (8 Jul 2009) “Cyberattacks Jam Government and Commercial Web Sites in U.S. and South Korea,”
The New York Times .
31 “Four Years of DarkSeoul Cyberattacks Against South Korea Continue on Anniversary of Korean War,” (27 Jun 2013) Symantec.
32 Fisher, M. (20 March 2013) “South Korea under cyber attack: Is North Korea secretly awesome at hacking?” The Washington Post .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 9
At the same time, North Korea also asserts that it is a target of cyber attacks from South Korea and the
U.S. In June 2013, when the North suffered a two-day outage of all of its in-country websites, its state
news agency denounced “concentrated and persistent virus attacks,” and proclaimed that the U.S.
and South Korea “will have to take the responsibility for the whole consequences.” The North noted that
the attack took place in parallel with Key Resolve (joint U.S.-South Korean military exercises), but the
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff denied any connection. [33]
India-Pakistan: old rivals, new tactics
A heavily fortified border separates India and Pakistan on the map. But the quiet, borderless nature
of cyberspace means both sides are free to engage in cyber warfare—even during peacetime.
In 2009, India announced that Pakistani cybercriminals had placed malware on popular Indian music
download sites as a clever, indirect way to compromise Indian systems. [34] In 2010, the “Pakistani Cyber
Army” defaced and subsequently shut down the website of the Central Bureau of Investigation, India’s
top police agency. [35] In 2012, over 100 Indian government websites were compromised. [36]
Not to be outdone, in 2013, cybercriminals in India undertook “Operation Hangover,” a large-scale
Indian cyber espionage campaign that hit Pakistani IT, mining, automotive, legal, engineering, food
service, military, and financial services networks. [37] Although researchers could not definitively tie the
attacks to India’s government, many of the targets represented the country’s national security interests. [38]
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN): emerging economies as soft targets
Since at least 2010, many APTs (likely China-based) have targeted the governments, militaries, and
businesses of ASEAN, the Southeast Asian geopolitical and economic group composed of Brunei,
Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam.
Although chances of any regional war erupting in the near term are low, a large volume of ongoing,
regional cyber espionage activity is a constant. Targeted industries include telecommunications,
transportation, oil and gas, banks, and think tanks. The usual motivation is to gain tactical or strategic
advantage within the political, military, and economic domains. [39]
FireEye researchers are following numerous APT actors in this region, including BeeBus, Mirage, Check
Command, Taidoor, Seinup, and Naikon. Their most common tactic is spear phishing, often using
legitimate decoy documents that are related to the target’s national economy or politics, or to regional
events such as ASEAN summits, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summits, energy exploration,
or military affairs.
33 Herman, S. (15 Mar 2013) “North Korea Blames US, South for ‘Cyber Attack’,” Voice of America.
34 “Significant Cyber Incidents Since 2006,” Center for Strategic and International Studies.
35 “India and Pakistan in cyber war,” (4 Dec 2010) Al-Jazeera.
36 Muncaster, P. (16 March 2012) “Hackers hit 112 Indian gov sites in three months,” The Register.
37 “Operation Hangover: Q&A on Attacks,” (20 May 2013) Symantec.
38 “Snorre Fagerland, et al. “Operation Hangover: Unveiling an Indian Cyberattack Infrastructure.” May 2013.
39 Finkle, J. (4 Aug 2011) “’State actor’ behind slew of cyber attacks,” Reuters.
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 10
FireEye believes that many of these regional economic organizations are attractive targets for APT
campaigns because the information they possess is valuable and their level of cyber security awareness
is low. Often, these organizations have inconsistent system administration, infrequent software patch
management, poor policy control, or some combination of these issues. Thus, many of these networks
are “low-hanging fruit” for attackers. And to make matters worse, compromised systems are used as
staging grounds for further attacks on regional targets, by installing illicit command-and-control (CnC)
servers, abusing legitimate email accounts, and disseminating stolen office documents as “bait.”