Transmission
T HREAT L ANDSCAPE
ELECTRUM is a well-resourced activity group with demonstrated capabilities to disrupt power transmission.
Dragos has identified connections between ELECTRUM and SANDWORM but note they are uniquely different.
SANDWORM served as the likely initial access vector to enable another, ICS-specific entity, ELECTRUM, to
conduct a sequenced, ICS-specific attack aimed at physical process destruction in the CRASHOVERRIDE
malware [24] attack on 17 December 2016 in Kiev, Ukraine. It impacted 200MW of load at a transmission
substation. The malware was highly tailored to deenergize a transmission-level substation by opening and
closing circuit breakers and switchgear, devices responsible for balancing power across the electric system,
and ensuring operator, power line, and equipment safety. The attack demonstrated a deep understanding of
the transmission environment and industrial protocols in use, enabling the adversary to customize malware for
the specific target.
A recent Dragos report published in August describes ELECTRUM’s attempts to disrupt protective relays to
create an unsafe, unstable condition for reconnected transmission lines at the moment of physical
restoration. [25] This suggests the attack could have caused much more significant – and dangerous –
consequences including equipment destruction, extended outages, and operator injury. Although the
protection-focused piece of the attack failed, it could act as a blueprint for future electric-targeting adversaries
attempting to disrupt operations and cause the greatest possible damage.
A SSESSMENT
While this attack occured in Europe, the CRASHOVERRIDE framework would be trivial to modify in order to
attack North American electric infrastructure. The intent to modify the framework has not been observed to
date. Additionally, Dragos’ research suggests concerning ambitions for ELECTRUM: causing a physicallydestructive event during restoration operations, a consequence not seen in previous attacks. North American
electric utilities should consider ELECTRUM to be a serious threat and be prepared to identify similar behaviors,
including abuse of native functionality to and from ICS equipment.