I
n Chapter Two we delved into detail covering the various patterns observed with the dynamic greensky27.vicp.
net domain. For those less familiar with this type of infrastructure, it is important to understand the purpose of a
dynamic domain, the service provider in which the domain is managed, and how the user (in this case Ge Xing) likely
manages the dynamic domain and the associated resolution records.
As we mentioned in Chapter Two, Naikon and online threat actors in general leverage and abuse benign dynamic
DNS service providers to obtain affordable means for mobility and redundancy to communicate with their malicious
code. The technique is quite simple: the adversary chooses a dynamic DNS service provider of interest and registers
for an account. The adversary will create a hostname (greensky27), binding it to one of the service providers domains
in which the dynamic DNS services are offered (vicp.net). The domain (greensky27.vicp.net) is then bound to the user
account under the adversary’s control.
The attacker will then embed the new dynamic domain (or domains) within
a malicious payload of their choice, in advance of the targeting or delivery
phase of the attack. Once the malware is deployed and a victim interacts
with it, the malicious payload calls home to the dynamic domain, resolving
and connecting to the respective C2 IP address the attacker chooses. The
attacker maintains the ability to update DNS records, pointing it to
infrastructure (IP addresses) at any time and place of their choosing. In the
case of Oray DNS records can be updated manually or managed with client
applications or embedded devices such as SOHO routers. Oray boasts
integrations with a variety of embedded hardware vendors such as D-Link,
TP-Link, ZTE, Huawei, and Cisco. [66]
In the use case highlighted above, Ge and the Naikon APT in general opt to
use Shanghai Best Oray Information Technology Co., Ltd. (上海贝锐信息科技
有限公司) as a dynamic domain infrastructure service provider. In fact, Naikon
even makes a casual reference to Oray within their self-registered domains
such as oraydns.googlesec.pw. [67]
Example of a the Oray Peanut Shell Client.
According to its website, Oray provides online services and software
applications. Its “Peanut Shell” (花生壳) services and applications include
remote desktop control (远程监控), website and forum maintenance, VPN
services, email systems, FTP services, and office automation services. [68]
Users do not need to update their dynamic DNS service through a browser.
Instead, Oray offers a local client application that allows users to manage the domain and update items such as the
A record, MX record, CNAME (alias), and URL redirection. [69]
According to several Oray.net forum posting notifications to its free Peanut Shell dynamic domain service customers
and support forum posts, Oray uses the 174.128.255.0/24 IP address range for resolution of offline (离线) domains
where the registered user’s host or router is not logged into the dynamic domain service [70] . This is an example of
“provider parking” as opposed to the Seoul or non-routable resolutions, which we assess as “adversary parking.”
66 http://hsk.oray.com/embed/
67 https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/69953/the-naikon-apt/
68 http://hsk.oray.com.
69 http://open.oray.com/wiki-en/doku.php
70 http://bbs.oray.com/thread-226666-1-1.html
Copyright © 2015 | ThreatConnect Inc. and Defense Group Inc. (DGI)