Introduction
The Russian­language cybercrime market is known all
over the world. By ‘Russian­language market’ we mean
cybercriminals who are citizens of the Russian Federation
and some former USSR countries, predominantly Ukraine
and the Baltic states. Why is this market known
worldwide? There are two main factors: the first of these is
frequent global media coverage of the activity of Russian­
language cybercriminals. The second is the open
accessibility of online platforms used by the cybercriminal
community for communications, promoting a variety of
“services” and “products” and discussing their quality and
methods of application, if not for making actual deals.
Over time, the range of “products” and “services” available
through this underground market has evolved, becoming
more focused on financial attacks, and with an ever­
increasing level of sophistication. One of the most
common types of cybercrime was (and still is) the turnover
of stolen payment card data. With the emergence of online
stores and other services involving e­payment
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 1/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
transactions, DDoS­attacks and financial cybercrime have
become especially popular with the fraudsters whose main
targets are users’ payment data or the theft of money
directly from user accounts or companies.
Attacks on users’ and companies’ e­wallets were initiated
by the Trojan ibank in 2006; then came ZeuS (2007) and
SpyEye (2009) followed by the groups Carberp (2010) and
Carbanak (2013). And this list is incomplete; there are
more Trojans out there, used by criminals to steal users’
money and data.
With online financial transactions becoming more
common, the organizations supporting such operations
are becoming more attractive to cybercriminals. Over the
last few years, cybercriminals have been increasingly
attacking not just the customers of banks and online
stores, but the enabling banks and payments systems
directly. The story of the Carbanak cybergroup which
specializes in attacking banks and was exposed earlier
this year by Kaspersky Lab is a clear confirmation of this
trend.
Kaspersky Lab experts have been monitoring the Russian
hacker underground since it first emerged. Kaspersky Lab
regularly issues reports on financial cyber­threats which
track changes in the number of financial malware attacks
carried out over time. Information on the number of
attacks may indicate the extent of the problem but does
not reveal anything about who creates them and how. We
hope that our review will help to shed light on this aspect
of financial cybercrime.