Other interesting discoveries
The Deceptikons APT is a long-running espionage group believed to have been providing
mercenary services for almost a decade now. The group is not technically sophisticated
and has not, to our knowledge, deployed zero-day exploits. The Deceptikons
infrastructure and malware set is clever, rather than technically advanced. It is also highly
persistent and in many ways reminds us of WildNeutron. Deceptikon’s repeated targeting
of commercial and non-governmental organizations is somewhat unusual for APT actors.
In 2019, Deceptikons spear-phished a set of European law firms, deploying PowerShell
scripts. As in previous campaigns, the actor used modified LNK files requiring user
interaction to initially compromise systems and execute a PowerShell backdoor. In all
likelihood, the group’s motivations included obtaining specific financial information,
details of negotiations, and perhaps even evidence of the law firms’ clientele.
MagicScroll (aka AcidBox) is the name we’ve given to a sophisticated malware framework,
whose main purpose is to decrypt and load an arbitrary payload in kernel mode. The
framework consists of several stages. The first stage is a Windows security provider that is
loaded by the system on boot and executed in user mode. This decrypts and runs a second
payload, which is physically stored in the registry. Although we weren’t able to find a
victim with this second stage, we were able to find a file that matches the expected format
of the second stage. This second stage payload utilizes a well-known vulnerability in a
VirtualBox driver (CVE-2008-3431) to load the third stage, which is designed to run in
kernel mode. The kernel mode payload is decrypted from a resource from the second
stage, using the key retrieved from the registry. Unfortunately, we couldn’t find a
decryption key to decrypt the third stage payload, so we don’t know what the last part of
this malware framework looks like. Although the code is quite sophisticated, we couldn’t
identify any similarity with other known frameworks.
Aarogya Setu is the name of a mandatory COVID-19 mobile tracking app developed by the
National Informatics Centre, an organization that comes under the Ministry of
Electronics and Information Technology in India. It allows its users to connect to
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2020/97937/ 7/8
7/31/2020 APT trends report Q2 2020 | Securelist
essential health services in India. With cyber criminals and APT actors taking advantage
of pandemic-tracking applications to distribute Trojanized mobile apps, we investigated
and identified apps that mimic the appearance and behavior of the legitimate Aarogya
Setu app while deploying Android RATs. We consider one of these to be a new version of
a RAT that we previously reported being used by the Transparent Tribe threat actor.