EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Beginning in late 2012, a carefully orchestrated attack campaign we call Volatile Cedar has been targeting individuals, companies
and institutions worldwide. This campaign, led by a persistent attacker group, has successfully penetrated a large number of targets
using various attack techniques, and specifically, a custom-made malware implant codenamed Explosive .
This report provides an extended technical analysis of Volatile Cedar and the Explosive malware.
Malware attribution is often tricky and deception-prone. With that in mind, investigation of the evidence leads us to suspect Volatile
Cedar originates from Lebanon (hence its nickname). Moreover, the Volatile Cedar target vertical distribution strongly aligns with
nation-state/political-group interests, eliminating the possibility of financially motivated attackers.
We have seen clear evidence that Volatile Cedar has been active for almost 3 years. While many of the technical aspects of the threat
are not considered “cutting edge”, the campaign has been continually and successfully operational throughout this entire timeline,
evading detection by the majority of AV products. This success is due to a well-planned and carefully managed operation that con­
stantly monitors its victims’ actions and rapidly responds to detection incidents.
Volatile Cedar is heavily based on a custom-made remote access Trojan named Explosive, which is implanted within its targets and
then used to harvest information. Tracking down these infections was quite a difficult task due to the multiple concealment measures
taken by the attackers. The attackers select only a handful of targets to avoid unnecessary exposure. New and custom versions are
developed, compiled and deployed specifically for certain targets, and ”radio silence” periods are configured and embedded specifi­
cally into each targeted implant.
The modus operandi for this attacker group initially targets publicly facing web servers, with both automatic and manual vulnerabil­
ity discovery. Once in control of a server, the attackers further penetrate the targeted internal network via various means, including
manual online hacking as well as an automated USB infection mechanism.
We will discuss the attack vectors and infection techniques used by the attack campaign as well as provide indicators that can be
used to detect and remove the infection.
For hashes, domains, IP addresses and other indicators of compromise, see Appendix C .
Some of the details in this investigation were edited or omitted from this report to protect customer privacy and ongoing research
efforts. Further information may be released in future reports.