Methods
To reach the conclusions presented in the ensuing report incidents were collected and chosen based on the
inclusion of cyber either as the medium for the event, or as some component factor that played a direct or otherwise
instrumental role in the outcome. After collecting a sampling of incidents into a dataset, these incidents were examined
and several directly attributable features/impacts were taken into account, including:
The victim(s) targeted


Evidence of cyber involvement


Economic losses


Fatalities incurred
Geopolitical impacts
Beyond the direct impacts, it was also necessary to consider possible indirect “ripple” effects. For example, it could be
important to consider something like the prices of crude oil prior to and after a given incident. A circumstance may be
such that particular companies or countries unaffected by the incident would find themselves benefiting from a ripple
effect like higher crude prices. Other effects to identify include changes in the status of the involved companies through­
out an incident. This could involve looking at earnings reports, the selling or buying of assets, or any legal actions the
company is involved in, as well as contextual events that are significant or contentious and occur directly prior to or after
an incident.
Through the investigation of these outcomes and contexts, there is the possibility of finding correlations be­
tween various incidents. These correlations may be made plain by observable patterns among the details of the events.
An observed pattern may suggest a recurring actor—these patterns include tactical and methodical similarities between
alleged attacks, recurring targets, entities that directly or indirectly benefitted or incurred losses as an outcome, and geo­
graphic dispersion or closeness of the events. In cases where an attack is apparent, tactical elements such as tools were
scrutinized as well, as a means of attribution. For example, a tool may unintentionally exhibit cultural tendencies such as
the language used, colloquialisms, idioms, religious preference, and recurring personal habits of the creator or operator.
These signatures coupled with aspects of the tactical assets like exclusiveness (as in the case of a purchased domain used
as a C2 point) can significantly raise the confidence level of an attribution.
Possible actors in the cyber exchange can ostensibly be identified from these correlations. If it is determined
that the incident was an attack, motives of the potential actors can be considered. A key element of this that should be
considered is any precedence for the attack. The history of political relationships between countries, such as any ex­
pressed hostilities or allegiances and treaties, may also prove relevant. History also tells us that most conflicts arise over
the acquisition of resources. As such, the energy resources and requirements of nation-states must be analyzed. For ex­
ample, is the entity being examined a major importer or exporter of oil? Is the entity capable of energy self-sufficiency?
Or has the country been experiencing a major influx in energy demand? This information can then be aggregated and
synthesized into a more informed view of the event.
A final major component of the analysis was the examination of whether the motives and methods align with
the actor’s strategic culture. This includes defining the overall strategic theories that the country adheres to and goals it
desires to accomplish. As mentioned earlier, the tactics employed during the attack can be incredibly potent as an attri­
bution mechanism—if an attack is far removed from a nation’s capabilities, it is less likely that they were involved in the
incident. Likewise, if the tactics are within a given nation’s technical prowess and follow established patterns exhibited by
that nation, it significantly improves the confidence in attribution. However, caution was taken when attributing tactics to
actors, as deception is a common element in many cyber warfare strategies. Therefore, tactical similarities or dissimilari­
7
ties alone do not implicitly identify or rule out a given actor.
Biases
The nature of OSINT gathering poses obstacles to objective analysis. While gathering the data, it should be
noted that there are source biases. All of the sources used are open source, and as such the provenance of the informa­
tion cannot always be independently verified. The information itself may be legitimate, but presented in an incomplete
or skewed manner. It is also likely that not all of the details of the collected incidents are available. In some cases the
companies reporting the incidents, such as Symantec and MacAfee, are not legally disposed to divulge select information
about their customers. Another limitation is information available about incidents that occurred in foreign countries.
Due to tighter control over journalism or language barriers, other countries are likely not releasing full details from inci­
dents that have occurred or not doing so in languages familiar to the authors. In some cases, entire events may not be
released to the public, either by foreign governments or the companies themselves.
In order to address the above concerns, several methods were used. Data was gathered from established, and
ideally trustworthy, sources. This includes reports from reputable news sites, company or government publications, or
scholarly papers. Also, every effort was made to track down the original source of the information found in reports, or
cross-examine it with other sources. Multiple sources were found wherever possible and scrutinized in order to obtain
corroborating data. Of equal interest is information which was contradictory between sources. These contradictions
were presented and addressed where appropriate.
Finally, despite evidence found in support of any given actor, alternate hypotheses must be considered. As with
any intelligence gathering, there is the possibility of error, whether information is misreported or taken out of context,
and this is especially true of OSINT. The purpose was not to select an outcome and attempt to support it but rather to
find refutation as well. Information that may exculpate a particular actor was thoroughly considered. Although human
error is common in cyber incidents, it is important to determine whether the error was taken advantage of by others.
8