Defense Recommendations
Doing the basics is always appropriate, and it significantly helps move ICS into a
defensible position. However, they are not worth repeating here, and instead, more
tailored approaches specific to ICS security analysts trying to defend against CRA­
SHOVERRIDE and similar capabilities are presented below:


Electric utility security teams should have a clear understanding of where
and how IEC 104 and IEC 61850 protocols are used. North American elec­
tric utilities should include DNP3 on this list in case the malware is extended
to impact U.S. systems. Look specifically for increased usage of the proto­
cols against baselines established in the environment. Also, look for systems
leveraging these protocols if they have not before and specifically try to
identify systems that are generating new network flows using these proto­
cols.


Similarly, understand OPC implementations and identify how the protocol is
being used. It is a protocol that is pervasive across numerous sectors. Also,
CRASHOVERRIDE is the second, out of four, ICS tailored malware suite with
OPC capabilities. OPC will appear abnormal in the CRASHOVERRIDE usage
as it is being used to scan all devices on the network which would generate
more traffic than usual.


Robust backups of engineering files such as project logic, IED configura­
tion files, and ICS application installers should be offline and tested. This will
help reduce the impact of the wiper functionality.


Prepare incident response plans for this attack and perform table top exer­
cises bringing in appropriate stakeholders and personnel across engineer­
ing, operations, IT, and security. The scenario should include substation
outages with the requirement to do manual operations while recovering the
SCADA environment and gathering appropriate forensics.


The included YARA rules and other indicators of compromise can be lever­
aged to search for possible infections (IOCs). The YARA rules will provide a
higher confidence towards discovering an infection than the other IOCs and
should be searched for against Windows OT systems especially noting HMIs.
The behavioral analytics to identify the communications on the network
would provide the highest capability to detect this and similar threats.


26