PLA Unit 61398/ Comment Crew/ APT1
The 3rd and 4th Departments of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General Staff
Department (GSD) supposedly houses China’s electronic warfare operations. Unit 61398 is
the Military Unit Cover Designator of the Chinese state sponsored advanced persistent
threat that operates out of the 2nd Bureau of the 3rd Department of PLA GSD, located off
Datong road in Pudong in Shanghai.
Unit 61398 is tasked with computer network operations. It operates on four large
networks in Shanghai. Two of these networks serve the Pudong region. The Unit has a
dedicated fiber optics connection that was paid for in the name of national defense. The
3rd Department employs over 130,000 employees. Unit 61398 consists of personnel who
are proficient in English and trained in computer security and computer network
operations. Members of Unit 61398 use Chinese (Simplified) keyboard settings. Most of
the IP addresses and the infrastructure used in the attacks trace back to China.
Unit 61398 targets sectors that are of interest to China’s 12th Five Year Plan. They
are large enough and well-resourced enough that it can simultaneously compromise dozens
of organizations. This adversary has breached over 150 organizations since its inception in
16

The majority of victims are located in the United States. Information Technology

organizations, Aerospace firms, Public Administration agencies and other technology heavy
sector are targets for Unit 61398. The adversary targets intellectual property data and
financial data. It exfiltrates intellectual property data, proprietary documents, business
plans, emails, and contacts.
Attacks begin with spear phishing emails that contain a malicious file or a malicious
link. The emails are personalized to the target and may not easily be distinguished from
legitimate emails. Attachments are usually in the ZIP format. Once the victim system is
compromised, the attacker establishes a persistent presence by installing a backdoor from
the dropper delivered from the email. The backdoor initiates contact with the C2C
infrastructure from inside the network so that the traffic can bypass internal firewalls. The
actor typically relies upon WEBC2 backdoors, which are minimally featured beachhead
backdoors. WEBC2 can only communicate with a C2C server through comments. Sometimes
the BISCUIT backdoor is used if more functionality is needed. BISCUIT uses the HTTP
protocol for communication and it features modules to capture screenshots, log keystrokes,
record system information, modify processes, modify the registry, execute code, log off or
shut down the session, and other features. Unit 61398 remains persistent on the
compromised system and it may revisit the system over the course of months or years. The
group remains on the network for 1-5 years. During this time, the group escalates their
privileges using login credentials that it gathers from publicly available tools built into the
initial malware. Next, they conduct network reconnaissance, by typing commands into the
command shell. Finally, they laterally move across the network to infect new systems and
they maintain their presence on the infected network. Unit 61398 compresses stolen data
into multiple files with a RAR archiving utility and exfiltrates the data through their backdoor
or through File Transfer Protocol (FTP).