AWS Stealer
Malicious actors typically exploit a security weakness in a target device to be able to execute their code
and ultimately accomplish their goals. [10] But with exploits becoming too expensive to purchase and finding
new vulnerabilities becoming more complicated with more secure systems, some malicious actors — in
this case, TeamTNT actors — instead look for misconfigurations or improper implementations of settings
as an entry point into their target system.
11 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group
Toward the end of 2020, TeamTNT started a campaign targeting customer instances running on Amazon
Web Services (AWS). [11] In this scenario, if TeamTNT was able to compromise and access an instance,
the group would be able to access any credentials available via the instance’s metadata service. It is
important to note that the metadata server can be queried only from inside an instance since the IP
address is a link-local address. As containers and misconfigured services were the previous targets of
TeamTNT, the group coincidentally had its malware running on a couple of hundred customer instances.
Figure 12. Searching for exploits and misconfigurations in a target system
While TeamTNT’s infection routines vary depending on the campaign, a typical attack pattern involves the
group’s scanner obtaining a list of targets (for example, IP addresses), which it then scans for security
weaknesses and misconfigurations, such as unsecured Redis instances, vulnerable internet-of-things
(IoT) devices, exposed Docker APIs, leaked credentials, and devices accessible via Secure Shell (SSH).
12 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group
Scanner List of targets Scan results Exploitable security Payload delivery
(e.g., IP addresses) weakness
Exploitable Victim
security weakness
Figure 13. A typical infection chain used by TeamTNT
If TeamTNT finds a security issue from the obtained scan results, the group starts delivering its payloads to
victims. If able to be run on compromised hosts, the group’s typical payloads include credential stealers,
local network scanners, reverse/bind shells, cryptocurrency miners, and even IRC bots.
For an enterprise, the impact of a successful TeamTNT attack could be particularly devastating. In a later
section, we discuss the monetary impact of a cryptocurrency miner payload. But that is just one part of
the story: Beyond what an organization or an individual could lose monetarily, attacks could also disrupt
whole systems through resource hijacking, leading to denial of service and other interruptions to the
operation.
Perhaps even more concerning for an organization is the theft of cloud credentials, which, depending on
the permissions associated with them, could allow a malicious actor to access and even gain control over
parts of the IT infrastructure. From there, the actor could perform a number of malicious activities, such
as shutting down systems, accessing confidential data, creating backdoors to gain permanent access to
the system, and, of course, installing cryptocurrency miners and other malware.
13 | Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT: A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group