2021 Threat Hunting Report
Insights From the Falcon OverWatch Team
The Value of Continuous Threat Hunting
OverWatch SEARCH Hunting Methodology
Intrusion Campaigns Summary
Adversary Technique and Tooling Insights
In Pursuit of PROPHET
SPIDER Casts a Vishing Net for Retail Target
Signal Interference: Threat Hunting Short-circuits Adversary
Telecommunications Targeting
OverWatch Uncovers Double Trouble in the Wires
Custom Tooling Rings Alarm Bells in Intrusion by (Not So) SILENT
CHOLLIMA
Stopping Breaches Is a Race Against the Clock
Conclusion
About CrowdStrike
CrowdStrike Products and Services
6
8
10
18
27
32
36
39
45
51
55
57
57
to continuously hunt for threat activity in customer environments. Armed with
cloud-scale telemetry of upward of 1 trillion endpoint-related events collected per
day, and detailed tradecraft on more than 160 adversary groups, OverWatch has
the unparalleled ability to see and stop the most sophisticated threats — leaving
adversaries with nowhere to hide. [1]
1 For more information on how Falcon OverWatch performs its mission, please see
https://www.crowdstrike.com/endpoint-security-products/falcon-overwatch-threat-hunting/.















This report shares
insights into the
latest adversary
tradecraft, gleaned
from OverWatch’s
extensive intrusion 
dataset.




Falcon platform with human expertise. With the combined power of human ingenuity
and patent-protected work flows, OverWatch systematically sifts through 1 trillion
daily events to find potential hands-on intrusions, on average 1 every 8 minutes.
OverWatch operates with speed and at scale to notify victim organizations of
malicious activity in near real time, ensuring intrusion attempts that incorporate novel
tradecraft are identified and disrupted before the breach.
Key findings from this year’s report include:
OverWatch has tracked a 60% increase in interactive intrusion activity in
the past year. The threat of hands-on intrusion activity remains very real —
OverWatch has observed and disrupted intrusions spanning all industry verticals
and geographic regions.
Adversaries have moved beyond malware. They are using increasingly
sophisticated and stealthy techniques tailor-made to evade autonomous
detections — of all of the detections indexed by CrowdStrike Threat Graph® in
the past three months, 68% were malware-free.
ECrime continues to dominate the threat landscape, making up 75% of
interactive intrusion activity. One driver of this has been the continually evolving
big game hunting (BGH) business model, which has seen the widespread
adoption of both the use of access brokers to facilitate access, and the use of
dedicated leak sites to extract payment.
ECrime adversaries are moving with increasing speed in pursuit of their
objectives. OverWatch observations show they are capable of moving laterally
within a victim environment in an average of 1 hour and 32 minutes.
Targeted intrusion adversaries remain a prominent threat, particularly for the
telecommunications industry. While organizations of all sizes and in all verticals
have the potential to become a target, the telecommunications industry stood
out this year, accounting for 40% of all state-nexus intrusion activity observed by
OverWatch in the past 12 months.
2 The term “interactive” denotes hands-on adversary activity.
3 The terms “this year” or “this past year” used throughout the report refer to the period from July 1, 2020
to June 30, 2021.
2021 Threat Hunting Report 5
This report features detailed case studies sharing insights into the hands-on activity
that OverWatch tracks on a daily basis and concludes with recommendations for
defenders looking to bolster their security program.
Note that this report’s findings relate to interactive (i.e., hands-on) targeted
intrusions [4] and eCrime intrusions that OverWatch tracks and are not necessarily
representative of the full spectrum of attacks that are stopped by OverWatch or the
Falcon platform.
Moreover, the term “intrusion” is used to describe any malicious interactive activity
that OverWatch uncovers in a victim environment. The term “intrusion” is not
synonymous with a “security breach” and should not be understood to mean that
the threat actor was able to achieve their objectives.
4 The term “targeted intrusion” in this report refers to state-nexus or other advanced persistent threat actors.
OverWatch is
on a mission to
find threats that
technology on its
own cannot.
endpoint, using legitimate credentials and built-in tools (living off the land) — which are
deliberate efforts to evade detection by traditional antivirus products.
68% of detections
from the last three months
were not malware-based
OverWatch is on a mission to find threats that technology on its own cannot.
Threat hunting takes place at the front lines of the battle between adversaries and
defenders. Each year OverWatch sees more adversaries, new tradecraft and faster
intrusions. In this context, finding the threat is only half the battle; using those insights
to disrupt adversaries at scale is where the battle is won.
In the 12 months from July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021, OverWatch’s human threat
hunters directly identified more than 65,000 potential intrusions, or approximately
1 potential intrusion every 8 minutes — 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. This
represents thousands of instances where OverWatch analysts uncovered adversaries
actively seeking to evade autonomous detection techniques. When considered
alongside adversaries’ demonstrated ability to begin moving through victim
environments in just minutes — shown throughout this report — these numbers drive
home the criticality of continuous threat hunting.
65,000
potential intrusions were identified
and stopped with the help of Falcon
OverWatch
8 minutes
is the average interval at which
OverWatch threat hunters uncovered
potential intrusions
2021 Threat Hunting Report 7
Crucially, each of these potential intrusions also represents an opportunity to advance
the autonomous detection techniques in the Falcon platform. With each pass through
the OverWatch SEARCH threat hunting cycle, hunters hone the Falcon platform’s
ability to detect similar intrusions more quickly and autonomously. Over the last
year, threat hunters distilled their findings into the development of hundreds of new
behavioral-based preventions, resulting in the direct prevention of malicious activity
on approximately 248,000 unique endpoints. These behavioral-based preventions
enhance the power of the Falcon platform to uncover novel adversary behavior with
greater speed and scale.
With the right data and tools, a small team of experts can not only stop today's most
sophisticated intrusions but also develop insights that drive continuous advancement
at every level of the security organization.
2021 Threat Hunting Report 8