Reconnaissance stage
Several companies have blogged about OlympicDestroyer’s attribution, it’s features and propagation
method, but no one has discovered how exactly it was launched and from where. That’s where we
had a little bit more luck.
Since December 2017 security researchers have been seeing samples of MS Office documents in
spearphishing emails related to the Winter Olympics uploaded to VirusTotal. The documents
contained nothing but slightly formatted gibberish to make it look like the text had an encoding
problem, encouraging the user to press a button to “Enable Content”.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Name server history:
Fig.3 Name server history for microsoft*.com
This email popped up as a contact detail for a small network inside the 89.21 9.. range that is
located in Kaz akhst an. This is where the trail ends for now. We apologize for not disclosing the full
information as we would like to avoid random interactions with this contact. Full information has been
provided to law enforcement agencies and customers subscribed to our APT Intel reporting service.
To manage the server in Argentina, Simon *** used the IP address in Norway (82.1 02..). This is the
gateway of a VPN service known as No rdVPN (https://nordvpn.com/) that offers privacy-protected
VPN services for bitcoins.
It’s not the first time the name NordVPN has cropped up in this case. We previously saw a
weaponized Word document used in spearphishing emails targeting the Winter Olympics that
contained something that looked like garbage text taken from a binary object (e.g. pagefile or even
raw disk). However, part of the random data included two clearly readable text strings (highlighted
below) that made it into the document (md5: 5ba7ec869c7157efc1e52f5157705867) for no obvious
reason:
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Fig. 4 A reference to NordVPN openvpn config file
Of course, this is a low confidence indicator, but seems to be another link between the spearphishing
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
One of the hosts in the network of the affected ski resort hotel had Kaspersky Lab’s system watcher
component enabled, which collected quite a few of the artifacts used by the attackers for lateral
movement. According to the telemetry from this host, the attackers entered the system on 6
February, 2018. They used three types of PowerShell scriptlets: TCP 4444 port opener, ipconfig
launcher and a downloader.
Based on telemetry we received from one of the hosts, we built a timeline of the attackers’ activity
and a histogram showing when the attackers started executables on the system.
Fig.5 Histogram with attacker activity per hour of day
From this we can see that the attackers were mostly busy outside of office hours according to
Korean Standard Time (UTC+9), perhaps to attract less attention or simply due to their own
timezone.