“MìMì” Messenger backdooring
https://blog.sekoia.io/luckymouse-uses-a-backdoored-electron-app-to-target-macos/ 1/9
8/15/22, 4:14 PM LuckyMouse uses a backdoored Electron app to target MacOS - SEKOIA.IO Blog
The “Mi” Application is an Electron messaging app available for Android, iOS, Windows
and MacOS platforms. As Mi is not widely promoted, and its related website
(www.mmimchat[.]com) doesn’t display a detailed description, general conditions of use
or social media links, SEKOIA rapidly questioned its legitimacy.
Figure 1. Mimi website at www.mmimchat[.]com
Moreover, the website hosted files were last modified on July 26. Based on the Apple
Store change logs and Passive DNS, we figured that the first traces of this application
dates back to June 2020. However, SEKOIA was not able to assess whether this
application is legit, or if it was designed or repurposed as a surveillance tool.
Additionally, based on our open source investigations, it is not possible to assess whether
Xiamen Baiquan Information Technology Co. Ltd. is a legit or a shell company.
The MacOS version of the “Mi” Application is an ElectronApp packaged in an Apple Disk
Image file. This application seems to be functional, where end users simply register
themselves to be able to discuss with their contacts. However, in version 2.3.0,
published on May 26 2022, the
./mimi.app/Contents/Resources/app/electron-main.js file was trojanized . As
shown below, this was implemented by placing a Dean Edwards Packed JavaScript code
at the beginning of the module.exports function.
https://blog.sekoia.io/luckymouse-uses-a-backdoored-electron-app-to-target-macos/ 2/9
8/15/22, 4:14 PM LuckyMouse uses a backdoored Electron app to target MacOS - SEKOIA.IO Blog
Figure 2. Backdoored electron-main.js file.
This code, executed at the runtime, checks if the environment is MacOS (darwin) and
then downloads the “rshell” implant from 139.180.216.65, an IP address already
associated to LuckyMouse HyperBro C2. The retrieved payload is written in the temp
folder, chmoded with execution permission and then, executed as shown in the
deobfuscated code:
Figure 3. Code responsible for downloading and executing RShell.
While SEKOIA analysts checked Windows, iOS, and Android versions of the app, no
backdoor was found in the current versions. However, TrendMicro found old Linux
and Windows versions backdoored. Read their analysis here.