Victims
It’s tempting to assume that Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) primarily target high-level institutions:
government agencies, ministries, military and political organizations, power stations, chemical plants, critical
infrastructure networks, and so on. In this context, it seems unlikely that a commercial company would be at risk
unless it was operating on the scale of Google, Adobe or The New York Times, which was recently targeted by a
cyber-attack, and this perception is reinforced by the publicity that attacks on corporations and government
organizations usually receive. However, any company with data that can be effectively monetized is at risk from
APTs. This is exactly what we encountered here: it was not a governmental, political, military, or industrial
organization. The target was specifically gaming companies.
Analyzing the Winnti samples helped to identify who and what were the targets. We found that we were dealing
with targeted attacks: the Winnti team infects companies that develop and release computer games. It appears the
team has been active for quite a while – since 2009.
PAGE 4| “Winnti” | More than just a game
It’s difficult to name all the victims of the Winnti team. Judging by the information that we have at our disposal –
namely the tags within malicious programs, the names of the C&C domains, the companies whose digital
certificates were stolen to sign malware, and the countries where detection notifications came from – we can say
that at least 35 companies were infected by the Winnti malware at some time.
Countries where the affected companies are located:
This data demonstrates that the Winnti team targets gaming companies located in various parts of the world,
albeit with a strong focus on South East Asia.
Countries where gaming companies have been affected
This geographic diversity is hardly surprising. Often, gaming companies (both publishers and developers) are
international, having representatives and offices worldwide. Also, it is common practice for gaming companies
from various regions to cooperate. The developers of a game may be located in a different country from its
publisher. When a game eventually reaches markets in regions away from its initial ‘home’, it is often localized and
released by other publishers. In the course of this cooperation, the partner companies often grant each other
access to network resources to exchange data associated with the gaming content, including distribution kits,
PAGE 5| “Winnti” | More than just a game
gaming resources, resource assembly kits, etc. If one company in the network gets infected, it’s easy for the
cybercriminals to spread the infection throughout the partnership chain.