Executive Summary
Cisco Talos has discovered a new cyber threat campaign that we are calling "Sea Turtle," which is targeting
public and private entities, including national security organizations, located primarily in the Middle East and
North Africa. The ongoing operation likely began as early as January 2017 and has continued through the
first quarter of 2019. Our investigation revealed that at least 40 different organizations across 13 different
countries were compromised during this campaign. We assess with high confidence that this activity is
being carried out by an advanced, state-sponsored actor that seeks to obtain persistent access to sensitive
networks and systems.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2019/04/seaturtle.html 1/10
4/19/2019 Talos Blog || Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: DNS Hijacking Abuses Trust In Core Internet Service
The actors behind this campaign have focused on using DNS hijacking as a mechanism for achieving their
ultimate objectives. DNS hijacking occurs when the actor can illicitly modify DNS name records to point
users to actor-controlled servers. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued an alert about this
activity on Jan. 24 2019, warning that an attacker could redirect user traffic and obtain valid encryption
certificates for an organization's domain names.
In the Sea Turtle campaign, Talos was able to identify two distinct groups of victims. The first group, we
identify as primary victims, includes national security organizations, ministries of foreign affairs, and
prominent energy organizations. The threat actor targeted third-party entities that provide services to these
primary entities to obtain access. Targets that fall into the secondary victim category include numerous DNS
registrars, telecommunication companies, and internet service providers. One of the most notable aspects
of this campaign was how they were able to perform DNS hijacking of their primary victims by first targeting
these third-party entities.
We assess with high confidence that these operations are distinctly different and independent from the
operations performed by DNSpionage, which we reported on in November 2018. The Sea Turtle campaign
almost certainly poses a more severe threat than DNSpionage given the actor's methodology in targeting
various DNS registrars and registries. The level of access we presume necessary to engage in DNS
hijacking successfully indicates an ongoing, high degree of threat to organizations in the targeted regions.
Due to the effectiveness of this approach, we encourage all organizations, globally, to ensure they have
taken steps to minimize the possibility of malicious actors duplicating this attack methodology.
The threat actors behind the Sea Turtle campaign show clear signs of being highly capable and brazen in
their endeavors. The actors are responsible for the first publicly confrmed i case against an organizations
that manages a root server zone, highlighting the attacker's sophistication. Notably, the threat actors have
continued their attacks despite public reports documenting various aspects of their activity, suggesting they
are unusually brazen and may be difficult to deter going forward. In most cases, threat actors typically stop
or slow down their activities once their campaigns are publicly revealed.
This post provides the technical findings you would typically see in a Talos blog. We will also offer some
commentary on the threat actor's tradecraft, including possible explanations about the actor's attack
methodology and thought process. Finally, we will share the IOCs that we have observed thus far, although
we are confident there are more that we have not seen.