O eration Da break eneral information p y g
Operation Daybreak appears to have been launched by unknown attackers to infect
high profile targets through spear-phishing e-mails. To date, we have observed more
than two dozen victims for these attacks.
Although the exact attack vector remains unknown, the targets appear to receive a
malicious link which points to a hacked website where the exploitation kit is hosted.
The hacked web server hosting the exploit kit is associated with the ScarCruft APT
and used in another line of attacks. Certain details, such as using the same
infrastructure and targeting, make us believe that Operation Daybreak is being done
by the ScarCruft APT group.
The ScarCruft APT group is a relatively new player and managed to stay under the
radar for some time. In general, their work is very professional and focused. Their
tools and techniques are well above the average. Prior to the discovery of Operation
Daybreak, we observed the ScarCruft APT launching a series of attacks in Operation
Erebus. Operation Erebus leverages another Flash Player exploit (CVE-2016-4117)
through the use of watering hole attacks.
In the case of Operation Daybreak, the hacked website hosting the exploit kit
performs a couple of browser checks before redirecting the visitor to a server
controlled by the attackers hosted in Poland.
1/8
The main exploit page script contains a BASE64 decoder, as well as rc4 decryption
implemented in JS.
The parameters sent to the “ap.php” script are randomly generated on each hit, so
the second stage payload gets encrypted differently each time. This prevents easy
detection by MD5 or signatures of the second stage payload.
The exploitation process consists of three Flash objects. The Flash object that triggers
the vulnerability in Adobe Flash Player is located in second SWF delivered to the
victim.
At the end of the exploitation chain, the server sends a legitimate PDF file to user –
“china.pdf”. The “china.pdf” file shown to the victims in the last stage of the attack
seems to be written in Korean:
Decoy document shown to victims
The document text talks about disagreements
between China and “The North” over nuclear
programs and demilitarization.