We can confirm the activity of at least 5 major cybercriminal groups specializing in financial crimes
In general, employees involved in cybercrime can be
divided into two types: those who are aware of the
illegality of the project or the work they are offered, and
those who (at least in the beginning) know nothing about
it. In the latter case, these are usually people performing
relatively simple operations such as copying the interface
of banking systems and sites.
By advertising “real” job vacancies, cybercriminals often
expect to find employees from the remote regions of
Russia and neighboring countries (mostly Ukraine) where
problems with employment opportunities and salaries for
IT specialists are quite severe.
A fraudster has advertised a job vacancy for java / flash specialists
on a popular Ukrainian website. The job requirements include a
good level of programming skills in Java, Flash, knowledge of JVM /
AVM specifications, and others. The organizer offers remote work
and full employment with a salary of $2,500.
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 9/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
The idea of searching for “employees” in these regions is
simple – they carry a saving because staff can be paid
less than employees based in large cities. Criminals also
often give preference to candidates who have not
previously been involved in cybercrime activity.
Often, such job offers are presented as legitimate work,
with the true purpose of the work only becoming clear
once the task is received.
In this example, the organizer of the criminal group offers a job to a
javascript programmer, masking it under a vacancy at a “Web­
innovation studio specializing in the development of highly
sophisticated Internet applications.”
In the case of illegal job search sites, less­experienced
candidates are expected.
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 10/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
This vacancy invites a C ++ developer to develop “custom”
software. In this context “custom” software means malicious
software.
The second reason in favor of remote “personnel” is the
organizer’s aim of making the activity of the group as
anonymous as possible, and to ensure that no single
contractor possesses complete information about the
group.