Notable Activity
Target Breach
On 19 December 2013, U.S.-based retailer Target released a statement
confirming a breach and providing an estimate of the total scope. According
to the statement, the actors were able to steal data for approximately 40
million credit cards and up to 70 million individuals’ records with Personally
Identifiable Information (PII). From reporting about the breach, it is publicly
speculated that the actors were able to access Target’s network via
credentials stolen from a Pennsylvania-based HVAC contractor that provided
services to Target.
In January 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence analyzed several files from the
incident. One of these files was a PoS malware named Kaptoxa (also known
as mmon), which is used as a component in another PoS malware, BlackPoS.
This copy of Kaptoxa continuously scanned volatile memory of infected
systems for patterns that looked like credit card numbers and logged them
to a file that was transferred to an internal network share at regular intervals.
Another utility was deployed onto these network shares to perform the final
exfiltration step in which the data was transferred to external FTP servers.
In January 2014, CrowdStrike identified a malware staging site that was
hosting a copy of the BlackPoS source code. While it is believed that this
site is not linked to the Target breach, analysis of the source code provided
additional insight into the simplicity of these tools. Compared to other
crimeware families, most PoS malware is relatively simple in design and
functionality. The malware used does not accept tasking from controllers or
external systems; its sole function is to scan, log, and exfiltrate data found.
Despite the simplistic nature of these tools, the adversary behind the Target
breach demonstrated sophisticated tradecraft in mounting a successful
operation, primarily by taking full advantage of the initial stolen credentials
to laterally move throughout the targeted network into the PoS systems.
The Rise of Commodity PoS
In 2014, while several major companies were coping with breaches of their
PoS infrastructure, many smaller retailers were facing the same threat from
less-organized groups. In underground marketplaces, ready-to-use PoS
malware kits were becoming more commonly available.
17