The Detection Methods with the most Coverage
Our analysis shows that a majority of the procedures of
threat actors can be detected by monitoring process
and file operations. These detection methods are the
most effective ones, to detect the attack patterns used
within targeted attacks. This, too, tallies with what
Costin Raiu said.
The following illustration of the top ten detection
methods underlines this once again:
Process Monitoring
File monitoring
Process command-line parameters
What are typical mistakes
organisations do in order to be
prepared for an APT attack and
how they respond to an APT?
Most organisations focus on
preventing an external attacker from
getting access to internal resources,
but few take measures to detect
an attacker once he/she has access
to the internal network.
86
82
149
API monitoring
Process use of network
Windows Registry
Packet capture
Authentication logs
Netflow/Enclave netflow
Binary file metadata
36
34
34
31
28
23
17
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160
Detection methods for process activities identify the majority of the existing procedures of threat actors.
User and network activity provide further context.
System activity
User and network
activity
The execution of code controlled by threat actors is a prerequisite for achieving their
strategic goals. Monitoring processes, files and changes in the Windows registry is the
most effective detection method for tracing a threat actor’s intrusion pattern. Even though
this form of detection brings the greatest added value, very high data volumes and
efforts for tuning are to be expected. Processes, network connections, file and registry
operations must be fully understood.
In addition to monitoring system activity, network data and user authentication logs
provide additional insight into the adversaries intrusion pattern.
Targeted attacks are becoming increasingly likely and
the currently available technological measures are often
insufficient for keeping pace with the abilities of professional cyber threat actors. For these reasons, Swisscom
relies on a risk-based security model that requires a high
level of security awareness within the organisation by
employee training and involves the community in the security culture, e.g. through the Bug Bounty Programme [13],
and fundamental preventive security measures e.g.
whitelisting and the patching of applications and
restricting of network traffic and e-mail attachments.
Prevention is one important aspect, however this might
ultimately fail when faced by highly motivated threat actors. It is therefore necessary to be proactive, understand
threat actors’ tactics, techniques and procedures and incorporate any gained insight into the detection process.
We recommend simulating a targeted attack through
red teaming exercises, conducting threat hunting and
engage in sharing groups.