Identities: Attacker Personas
The infrastructure used by Dark Caracal revealed several different associated personas. This resulted in the team linking four
different aliases, two domains, and two phone numbers to this infrastructure. At the center of these personas is the email
address op13@mail[.]com which has appeared at various stages in the historical WHOIS information of Dark Caracal domains
(see: Timeline).
Aliases associated with op13@mail[.]com include Nancy Razzouk, Hadi Mazeh, and Rami Jabbour. All of the physical addresses
listed in the WHOIS domain registrations associated with op13@mail[.]com tend to cluster around the SSID: Bld3F6 Wi-Fi
locations. This is near the General Security building in Beirut.
Nancy Razzouk and Hassan Ward
We identified Nancy Razzouk listed alongside the op13@mail[.]com email address in domain WHOIS information. We also found
this name in signer content for the Windows malware [7] that communicates with adobeair[.]net.
Figure 4: Signer content for Windows malware
The contact details for Nancy present in WHOIS information matched the public listing for a Beirut-based individual by that
name. When we looked at the phone number associated with Nancy in the WHOIS information, we discovered the same number
listed in exfiltrated content and being used by an individual with the name Hassan Ward.
7 SHA-256 HASH: d57701321f2f13585a02fc8ba6cbf1f2f094764bfa067eb73c0101060289b0ba
7
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Hadi Mazeh
During July 2017, Dark Caracal’s internet service provider took the adobeair[.]net command and control server offline. Within
a matter of days, we observed it being re-registered to the email address op13@mail[.]com with the name Nancy Razzouk. This
allowed us to identify several other domains listed under the same WHOIS email address information, running similar server
components. The WHOIS name field, however, listed several entries with the name Hadi Mazeh. This suggests that either multiple
individuals are using the op13 email address or the owner has several aliases that he or she uses with it.
Figure 5: Aliases associated with the op13 email address
Rami Jabbour
We determined the actor behind the op13 email address also registered the domain arablivenews[.]com and provided the name
Rami Jabbour. Address details listed in WHOIS information for this specific entry are Salameh Blg, Museum Str, and Mathaf, which
appears to be in close proximity to where we have seen test devices in Beirut.
8
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT