3 Lazarus arisen: architecture, tools, attribution
Masquerading
as Russian hackers
Since 2016, the hackers have tried to mask their activity by pretending to
be Russian hackers. They added specific debugging symbols and strings
containing Russian words to a new version of Client_TrafficForwarder, a
module designed to proxy network traffic. To protect their executables,
they used Enigma Protector, a commercial product, which was created by a
Russian software developer. They also used exploits for Flash and SilverLight
from sets of exploits created by Russian-speaking hackers.
These masquerade techniques did initially mislead some researchers who
conducted express analysis of malicious code.
Emerging trend
A state-sponsored hacker group Lazarus managed to gain fraudulent
access to the SWIFT network of attacked banks. This is believed to be a
growing trend: state-sponsored hackers are demonstrating an increased
interest in conducting attacks on financial institutions, which are considered
a component of the national critical infrastructure in some countries. At the
moment, only a few similar incidents have been detected. For example, in
2010-2013 the NSA reportedly penetrated the SWIFT banking network and
monitored a number of Middle East banks. In late 2016, attacks on Ukrainian
banks were conducted, allegedly as part of the BlackEnergy operation.
However, researchers expect that the number of attacks on financial
institutions by state-backed hackers may significantly increase in the future.
Victims
The earliest indicator of compromise detected by Group-IB is dated March
2016. This was directly after the Central Bank of Bangladesh incident,
which took place in February 2016, where attackers attempted to steal $1
billion USD. Only a spelling mistake in an online bank transfer instruction
helped prevent them from stealing more than $81 million USD. Following
this incident, the group modified its tactics and tools, adapting them to the
changing environment and misleading researchers.
Emerging trend
Victims
Through analysis of compromised networks, Group-IB identified IP addresses
of universities in the US, Canada, Great Britain, India, Bulgaria, Poland,
Turkey, pharmaceutical companies in Japan and China, as well as government
subnets in various countries.