~~Private sector~~ ~~ofensive actors~~ f
A growing industry of companies called private
sector offensive actors (PSOAs) create and sell
malicious cyber technologies that enable their
customers to break into people’s computers, phones,
and internet-connected devices. These private
companies may not be nation state actors, but their
business model presents a dangerous and rapidly
growing challenge for organizations, companies,
and individual consumers. These tools also threaten
many global human rights efforts, as they have been
observed targeting and surveilling dissidents, human
rights defenders, journalists, civil society advocates,
and other private citizens.
In December 2020, Microsoft’s efforts to protect
our customers from the threats presented by this
technology led us to file an amicus brief in support
of WhatsApp’s case against Israel-based NSO
Group Technologies (NSO Group) along with Cisco,
GitHub, Google, LinkedIn, VMware, and Internet
Association. [ Note 59 ] The brief encouraged the court to
reject NSO Group’s position that it is not responsible
for the use of its surveillance and espionage
products by governments. Microsoft also worked
with Citizen Lab, at the University of Toronto’s Munk
School, to disable malware being used by an Israel
based PSOA that Microsoft calls SOURGUM, and
that Citizen Lab identified as Candiru. [ Note 60 ] SOURGUM
created malware and 0-day exploits (fixed in CVE##### f 2021-31979 [ Note 61 ] and CVE-2021-33771 [ Note 62] ) as a part of a
hacking-as-a-service package sold to government
agencies and other malicious actors. The malware
was used to target more than 100 victims around
the world including politicians, human rights
activists, journalists, academics, embassy workers,
and political dissidents. To limit these attacks,
Microsoft has created and built protections into our
products against this unique malware, which we
call DevilsTongue. [ Note 63 ] By examining how SOURGUM’s
customers were delivering DevilsTongue to victim
computers, we saw they were doing so through a
chain of exploits that impacted popular browsers
and our Windows operating system. We published
details of the malware and 0-day exploits so that
the world can better understand SOURGUM’s
activity and address and mitigate the threat. Private
companies should remain subject to liability when
they use their cyber-surveillance tools to break the
law, or knowingly permit their use for such purposes,
regardless of who their customers are or what
they are trying to achieve. Microsoft will continue
to identify, track, and protect our customers and
global digital ecosystem from the indiscriminate
attacks caused by PSOA technology and pursue
other methods to disrupt this growing threat to our
customers.