CONCLUSION
The cyber-espionage operation behind the Snake rootkit is well established, a sample comiled in January 2006 indicates that
the activity would have begun in at least 2005. It is also sophisticated, using complex techniques for evading host defences and
providing the attackers covert communication channels. Toolmarks left behind by the authors ‘ vlad ’ & ‘ gilg ’, leave tantalizing clues
as to the personas behind this.
From a technical perspective, Snake demonstrates two very different approaches to the task of building a cyber-espionage toolkit.
One approach is to delegate the network communication engine to usermode code, backed up by a usermode rootkit. Another
approach is to carry out all of the communications from the kernel-mode driver, which is a very challenging task by itself.
The complexity of the usermode-centric approach is on par with Rustock rootkit - it uses similar techniques. It’s an old well-polished
technology that evolved over the years and demonstrated its resilience and survivability under the stress of security countermeasures. The complexity of the kernel-centric architecture of Snake is quite unique. This architecture is designed to grant Snake
as much flexibility as possible. When most of the infected hosts are cut off from the outside world, it only needs one host to be
connected online. The traffic is then routed through that host to make external control and data exfiltration still possible.
The presence of the reconnaissance tool in the Snake operators’ framework suggests the existence of an arsenal of infiltration
tools, designed to compromise a system, then find a way to replicate into other hosts, infect them, and spread the infection
even further. As demonstrated, the backdoor commands allow Snake to provide remote attackers with full remote access to the
compromised system. Its ability to hibernate, staying fully inactive for a number of days, makes its detection during that time very
difficult.
The analysed code suggests that even file system and registry operations can be delegated by an infected module to another
module in order to stay unnoticed by behaviour analysis engines of the antivirus products, and to overcome account restrictions of
the browser processes so that the injected module could still write into files and into the sensitive registry hives.
The logs and dumps it creates on the hidden virtual volumes contributes to its stealthiness too. A great deal of attention has also
been given to keep its network communications as quiet as possible. Its ability to generate malicious traffic whenever the user
goes online and start loading the web pages allows it to ‘blend in’ with the legitimate communications.
We expect much more will be uncovered by researchers in the coming weeks as the capabilities of this operation are further fleshed
out. However, as we implied in the opening section, we view this threat to be a permanent feature of the landscape. Whether they
dismantle this toolset and start from scratch, or continue using tools which have been exposed, remains to be seen. For their
targets though the considerable challenge of keeping secrets safe on sensitive networks will certainly continue for years to come.