80 countries
Of the 262 compromises, 182 affected U.S. entities’
networks while 80 affected entities outside of the U.S.
This includes one instance where a suspected China
based group stole information from a privately held
Chinese conglomerate. These compromises affected
a total of 25 other countries in Europe, Asia, South
America, the Middle East, and Africa. Following are
the specific countries, listed by frequency of incident:
Great Britain
Japan
Canada
Italy
Switzerland
Germany
Netherlands
India
Australia
Denmark
Philippines
Sweden
Taiwan
Brazil
China
Colombia
Egypt
France
Hong Kong
Israel
Korea
Norway
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Tunisia
Although we have continued to see suspected China
based groups compromise corporations’ networks
in the U.S., Europe, and Japan and target entities
in the countries surrounding China through late
2015 and into 2016, our data shows an overall decline
in compromises that began in earnest in mid-2014 –
more than a year before the Xi-Obama agreement.
While there was a subsequent drop-off in activity
leading up to President Xi’s September 2015 visit to
the U.S., possibly orchestrated to avoid any negative
publicity during the meeting, it occurred during what
was already an ongoing decline in network intrusions.
SPECIAL REPORT / RED LINE DRAWN: CHINA RECALCULATES ITS USE OF CYBER ESPIONAGE 12
SUSPECTED CHINA-BASED ACTIVITY AGAINST
CORPORATE VICTIMS, LATE 2015 TO MID-2016:
Despite the decline, China-based threat groups continue to operate. Through late 2015 and 2016, we saw suspected
China-based groups compromise corporations’ networks in the U.S., Europe, and Japan, while also targeting
government, military, and commercial entities in the countries surrounding China.
|April – May 2016|Col2|Three groups compromised the networks of four firms headquartered in theU.S., Europe, and Asia that are involved in the manufacturing of semiconductorsand chemical components used in the production of semiconductors. We did notobserve data theft in any of these instances. However, in 2012, we saw one of thesesame groups compromise a semiconductor firm and target the workstationof a key individual active in research and development. Other China-basedgroups have also compromised and stolen data from semiconductor firmsin the past, including as recently as July 2015.|
|---|---|---|
|April – May 2016||After compromising a network, the group moved laterally, harvested credentials,and deployed backdoors on systems at a U.S. high-tech corporation.|
|March – May 2016||In what appeared to be an attempt to obtain information related to U.S. militaryprojects, a group deployed backdoors to a victim’s web servers and harvestedcredentials at a U.S. government services company.|
|August 2015 – March 2016||After compromising the network of a U.S. high-tech corporation, the groupbegan collecting data about navigational software in RAR fles, likely inpreparation for transferring the data from the environment.|
|March 2016||A group compromised a U.S. healthcare organization and deployeda backdoor providing continued access to the network.|
|December 2012-March 2016||In December 2012 a group breached the network of a U.S. software company.In 2014, they returned to the network, packaged data on navigational projectsin likely preparation for removing it from the network. The same group returnedagain in early 2016 and viewed fles related to the same project, but they did nottransfer any data out of the network.|
|October 2015 – February 2016||In early 2016, a group prepared to transfer fles out of the networkof a European consulting company. The fles were related to technologyused in U.S. military projects.|
|January 2016||At a European logistics company a group collected user credentials duringan intrusion into the network.|
|October – November 2015||After a group breached the network of a major media company, they stole usercredentials, probably with the intent to expand their access within the network.|
|September – October 2015||At a U.S. aerospace company, a group deployed a backdoor, conducted networkreconnaissance, and harvested user credentials, likely in preparation for continuedactivity. We did not observe the group transferring data from the network.|
SPECIAL REPORT / RED LINE DRAWN: CHINA RECALCULATES ITS USE OF CYBER ESPIONAGE 13
2015-2016 REGIONAL SPEAR-PHISHING
ACTIVITY REFLECTS SECURITY CONCERNS
In addition to the confirmed network compromises
described above, our research identified suspected
China-based groups spear phishing governments and
commercial organizations headquartered in countries
surrounding China. Much of this activity appears to
be traditional espionage, primarily motivated by political
and security concerns amid ongoing diplomatic tensions
in the region.
We have strong indications that China-based groups have
been conducting espionage activity in the region for more
than a decade as shown, for example, by our profile of a
group likely backed by the Chinese government whom we
refer to as APT30. The Chinese Government’s use of cyber
operations to conduct espionage in support of state
security objectives parallels similar efforts by other nation
states to pursue state secrets through network means.
The targeting and data taken during traditional espionage
activity typically allows us to distinguish it from corporate
intellectual property theft. However, we frequently see
compromises where a group targets or steals data that
could equally serve military, security, and economic ends—
such as navigational technology. This gray area between
espionage that would support state economic ends and
that, which would support state security, makes it difficult
to definitively characterize espionage activity without
visibility into the data’s end use.
On the following map we identify several instances of 2015
and 2016 activity that indicate interest by China-based
groups in regional political and security targets.
RUSSIA
Mid to Late 2015
Spear phishing against
possible Russian defense
organizations and a Russian
engineering corporation that
serves the energy sector.
MONGOLIA
December 2015
Spear phishing targeting
Vietnamese government
and commercial
organizations.
HONG KONG
February 2016
Spear phishing against Chinese
dissidents in Hong Kong.
SPECIAL REPORT / RED LINE DRAWN: CHINA RECALCULATES ITS USE OF CYBER ESPIONAGE 14