Xidian University ( 西安电子科技大学 )
Connections to the Security Services
Guangdong ITSEC, a division of the MSS 13 [th] Bureau and the
managing organization for APT3, started working with Xidian
University in 2017 to offer a jointly administered graduate program
under the Network and Information Security School (网络与信息安
全学院). [57] Xidian University awards degrees and handles
admissions; Guangdong ITSEC facilitates hands-on education and
pairs graduate students with MSS employees serving as mentors. [58]
Together, Guangdong ITSEC and Xidian University graduate
students pursue research projects that meet the “actual needs” (实
际需求) of Guangdong ITSEC—solving technical problems to
enable the MSS’s work. The relationship between Guangdong
ITSEC and Xidian University is unusual; not only is the jointly
administered degree a novel program, but the two institutions are
located more than 1,000 miles apart. Xidian University’s
involvement may be explained by Guangdong ITSEC’s collection
priorities. APT3 changed its mission to targeting residents of Hong
Kong in 2015. [59] Practicing offensive cyber skills on Hong Kongers
is no different than an internship with the Ministry of Public
Security since China considers Hong Kong to be an “internal affair.”
This is conjecture, however. There are no reports that Xidian
University supported past operations and this is the first report
establishing the university’s relationship with the Guangdong
ITSEC.
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 16
Xidian University students are not limited to just one division of the
MSS 13 [th] Bureau, however. The university also established a joint
research laboratory and internship program with Shaanxi ITSEC in

The two committed to “jointly launch information security

assurance and posture evaluation services for China, Shaanxi
Province, and Shaanxi's prefecture-level cities " among many other
responsibilities. [60] Shaanxi ITSEC is not connected to any publicly
known APT groups or hacking campaigns.
Xidian University’s relationship with PLA information warfare units
extends at least a decade. In 2011, Xidian University established a
relationship with the 3PLA and 4PLA, both now under the PLA
Strategic Support Force, when it constructed the Collaborative
Innovation Center of Information Sensing and Understanding (信息
感知技术协同创新中心). [61] This project was a continuation of its
historic ties to the CCP—Mao Zedong established the forerunner to
Xidian University in 1931. [62]
Research on AI/ML + Cybersecurity
Two Xidian University professors claim an affiliation with China’s
security services and are conducting research on AI and
cybersecurity.
Dr. Zhang Yuqing (张玉清) joined Xidian University after having
first served as the director of the National Computer Network
Intrusion Prevention Center (国家计算机网络入侵防范中心主任), a
government body tasked with securing computer networks, and
serving as the Deputy Director of the National Engineering
Experimental Laboratory for Technology to Prevent and Cure
Computer Viruses (计算机病毒防治技术国家工程实验室副主任). [63]
Zhang’s research at Xidian is focused on network confrontation,
vulnerability discovery and exploitation, and the intersection of AI
and cybersecurity. [64] In his most recently published academic paper,
Zhang and researchers from the National Computer Network
Intrusion Prevention Center—his former employer—surveyed more
than 200 papers on using AI for cybersecurity tasks. [65] The paper
analyzed possible applications of ML for data mining, vulnerability
discovery and exploitation, and automated patching of software
vulnerabilities. Zhang and his colleagues determined that using AI
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 17
for automated vulnerability discovery was likely the most useful
application and made recommendations for future research to
overcome the technology’s (2018) limitations at the time. The
project would likely prove useful to one of its funders, the
Unclassified Projects Program at the Key State Laboratory for
Information Security (信息安全国家重点实验室的开放课题), which
could use the research to inform grant distributions to other
academics working on ML and cybersecurity. The actual impact of
the report is unknown, however. [66]
A second academic, Dr. Yang Chao (杨超), has active connections
to the security services and conducts research on AI applications
for cybersecurity . [67] While at Xidian University, Dr. Yang has
submitted more than 20 software vulnerabilities to China’s
National Vulnerability Database (CNNVD, 国家信息安全漏洞库)—a
division of the MSS 13th Bureau. Fifteen of these received
certification from the government as critical vulnerabilities, though
most were apparently related to payment systems within China. [68]
His work on cybersecurity earned him a national defense research
project funded by the now-defunct PLA General Armaments
Department Development Fund and a current “high-level
consulting position” with the MSS 13 [th] Bureau Xibei office. [69] Yang
describes his research as including “data-driven AI intelligent cyber
threat detection and [developing a] “hunter” defense system
architecture; AI and big data analysis-based detection of
malignancies in encrypted traffic; machine learning-based
encrypted traffic (SSL, Tor, VPN, ShadowSocks) / private internet
protocol recognition and investigation; data analysis and machine
learning-based cyberspace virtual persona recognition, matching,
and investigation.” [70] Each of Yang’s research topics tightly
intertwines ML and cybersecurity and could be put to good use in
his consulting position at the MSS 13 [th] Bureau’s Xibei office.
Academics at Xidian University without acknowledged or known
ties to the security services are also conducting similar research. A
paper focused on defensive research published in 2019 proposed
and demonstrated using machine learning to classify malware
samples based on patterns in behavior. [71] The resulting model could
be used to detect attacks from new malware with behaviors similar
to that of older, known malware. Research using machine learning
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 18
for behavioral detection of new attacks is a common theme in
current research on AI and cybersecurity. [72] Another Xidian
University paper from 2017 proposed a similar ML-based solution
to classifying malware, though that research focused on
overcoming inadequate training data. [73]
Other academics are conducting research on less defensive, more
dual-use topics. An article from 2019 compared algorithms that
conduct membership interference attacks on ML systems, an
exploit that allows attackers to determine if a given piece of data
was part of the model’s training data. [74] For example, a membership
interference attack on a facial recognition system may allow the
attacker to determine if the system can identify a particular face. [75]
Though the researchers qualified their research by demonstrating
how to defend against such attacks, the paper concluded with
examples of attacking commercially available algorithms to
evaluate which data sets had been used to train targeted models.