Defending against this threat
Defending against this threat is extremely difficult due to the nature of the affected devices. The
majority of them are connected directly to the internet, with no security devices or services between
them and the potential attackers. This challenge is augmented by the fact that most of the affected
devices have publicly known vulnerabilities which are not convenient for the average user to patch.
Additionally, most have no built-in anti-malware capabilities. These three facts together make this
threat extremely hard to counter, resulting in extremely limited opportunities to interdict malware,
remove vulnerabilities, or block threats.
Despite these challenges, Talos has released protections for this threat from multiple angles, to try
to take advantage of the limited options that exist. We developed and deployed more than 100 Snort
signatures for the publicly known vulnerabilities for the devices that are associated with this threat.
These rules have been deployed in the public Snort set, and can be used by anyone to help defend
their devices. In addition, we have done the usual blacklisting of domains/IPs as appropriate and
convicting of the hashes associated with this threat to cover those who are protected by the Cisco
Security ecosystem. We have reached out to Linksys, Mikrotik, Netgear, TP-Link and QNAP
PDF created with the PDFmyURL di thi i web to PDF API (N t QNAP h ! b f t i t f VPNFilt d i l
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
The RC4 initialization XORs the values in the permutation phase of the internal state initialization. As
you can see in the last basic block, the code doesn't swap the values of S[i] and S[j] (compared to
the RC4 pseudo code below).
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
Once the malware has completed initialization, it starts to download pages from the seed URLs. In
the MIPS sample cache and all but one URL of the x86 sample, the URLs pointed to
Photobucket.com, an image-sharing host. The malware downloads the first image from the gallery
the URL is referencing, and then proceeds to extract the download server's IP address. The IP
address is extracted from six integer values for GPS latitude and longitude in the EXIF information.
If stage 1 fails to connect to, download an image from, or successfully acquire an IP address via an
image from Photobucket, the malware reaches out to a backup domain, toknowall[.]com, to
download an image and attempt the same process.
If the attempt to the backup domain fails, stage 1 opens a listener that waits for a specific trigger
packet to open a connection for the actor to connect interactively to the device. When the listener
opens, it checks its public IP from api.ipify[.]org and stores it for later comparison. Then, when any
packet arrives on any port, the listener performs a series of checks to identify a trigger packet. If
the packet meets a predefined set of criteria, it will extract an IP address from the packet and
attempt a stage 2 download.
LISTENER ACTIONS:


Inspects all TCP/IPv4 packets with a SYN flag set


Checks that the destination IP matches what it found when the listener opened (Note: if the


listener failed to get an IP from api.ipify[.]org it will skip this check)
3. Makes sure the packet has eight or more bytes
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
p g y
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
}
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
PDF created with the PDFmyURL web to PDF API !
VPNFilter is an expansive, robust, highly capable, and dangerous threat that targets devices that are
challenging to defend. Its highly modular framework allows for rapid changes to the actor's
operational infrastructure, serving their goals of misattribution, intelligence collection, and finding a
platform to conduct attacks.
The destructive capability particularly concerns us. This shows that the actor is willing to burn
users' devices to cover up their tracks, going much further than simply removing traces of the
malware. If it suited their goals, this command could be executed on a broad scale, potentially
rendering hundreds of thousands of devices unusable, disabling internet access for hundreds of
thousands of victims worldwide or in a focused region where it suited the actor's purposes.
While the threat to IoT devices is nothing new, the fact that these devices are being used by
advanced nation-state actors to conduct cyber operations, which could potentially result in the
destruction of the device, has greatly increased the urgency of dealing with this issue. We call on
the entire security community to join us in aggressively countering this threat.
We will continue to monitor VPNFilter and work with our partners to understand the threat as it
continues to evolve in order to ensure that our customers remain protected and the public is
informed.