BETA/NON-WORKING FEATURES: New executable generation
There are a few timers in the infostealer that are related to a missing file. I managed to find a copy of the
missing file from an older command and control server, in order to understand the intentions of the
authors.
The missing file is downloaded by Timer 50: SeSeSeSe.htm. It's not present on the current C&C servers.
If we were to replace the SeSeSeSe.htm with an old copy (originally SSSS.htm), Timer 51 would produce a
file called "Ladine.dll", which is a template executable of the Trojan downloader used to install the
infostealer.
Timer 52: Copy Ladine.dll to "Soltanik.exe"
Timer 52 makes a copy of "Ladine.dll" under the name "soltanik.exe", which is the template file.
Timer 35: Clean files from Timer 39
Timer 35 is disabled. A special BOTID is created by concatenating "CoolDiskGo(" with "BOTID_TMP)",
e.g.: CoolDiskGo(MYCOMPUTER-8712422C6C7704EF)
Timer 35 puts the C&C IP address in a global variable that will be used by Timer 38.
Timer 35 tries to delete the following several files created by Timer 39: 1.txt, res.ini, res.log,
Icon_1.ico,output.rc and server.exe.
It does several other things which are not relevant to what I describe here, so I've omitted any reference to
those actions.
Timer 36 is enabled before returning.
Timer 36: Enable Timer 37 if 1.txt isn't found - logic/code bug
Timer 36 is disabled upon execution. If "1.txt" isn't present, Timer 37 is enabled. Otherwise, it calls a
Base64 decoding function. 1.txt must be a valid Base64 encoded stream of bytes; otherwise, an exception
occurs and Timer 36 returns.
Timer 37: Update resource for the template downloader: Soltanik.exe
Timer 37 is disabled upon execution. A structure exception handler is installed before reading 1.txt.
In the event of an exception the SEH handler will enable Timers 42, 34, 33, 35, and Timer 37 will return.
Timer 37 expects 1.txt to be present and here is the logic bug. Timer 37 is only enabled when 1.txt isn't
present, by Timer 36. Let's ignore the reasons for its creation and continue analyzing the intentions of the
authors.
Timer 37 calls the BeginUpdateResource (with the bDeleteExistingResources parameter set to 0), and
start updating the resources of the template executable (soltanik.exe) in RCDATA.
A MAHDI entry is added, with the Base64 content from 1.txt. This works in exactly the same way as the
downloaders with social engineering features.
Timer 38 is enabled, and Timer 37 returns.
Note: At the end of Timer 37, Soltanik has been modified to have a new resource: MAHDI.
Timer 38: Update more resources from the template downloader (Soltanik.exe)
Several entries are added to RCDATA:
Shelikn : Special BotID generated by Timer 35
SiteW: C&C IP address
Bind: Empty (according to analysis of the downloaders that use social engineering, it should be the
extension of the embedded file dropped to social engineering victims. If MAHDI contains a Base64
encoded picture, Bind should be set to .JPG).
Filee: SCR
Roze: 0
Once the resources have been updated, Timer 39 is enabled and Timer 38 returns.
Timer 39: Generate a final binary: Server.exe with updated icon
At the end of Timer 38, soltanik.exe has been fully updated with new resources. Upon execution, Timer 39
disables itself and starts generating a special command line for the Resource Hacker tool that was created
as "Res.exe" by Timer 47.
The command line is the following:
There is a bug in the routine. An executable name is missing right after "-extract".
The command line dumps the Main Icon to disk (Icon_1.ico) and creates a file called "output.rc".
At this point, it is impossible to know which file was meant to be used as the source of a new icon. For the
sake of our analysis, let's pretend the bug doesn't exist and that a valid file name was provided.
Afterwards, a second command line is passed to "Res.exe":
This final command line will generate Server.exe, a copy of soltanik.exe whose icon has been changed to
the one extracted in the previous command.
Server.exe is now fully updated. Its resources are filled, and its icon changed. It's not clear why the authors
did this, but despite all the bugs it was possible to understand the overall aim of the routine: to create a
Server.exe file from soltanik.exe with a new icon and added resources. What happens to Server.exe?
Nothing, this is a non-working feature. It appears Madi has the ability to generate new downloaders, at
least, in theory.
The 7 remaining timers won't be described as they are of little interest.