Activity
By GReAT on February 20, 2018. 2:00 pm
Sofacy, also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, and Tsar Team, is a highly active
and prolific APT. From their high volume 0day deployment to their
innovative and broad malware set, Sofacy is one of the top groups that we
monitor, report, and protect against. 2017 was not any different in this
regard. Our private reports subscription customers receive a steady
stream of YARA, IOC, and reports on Sofacy, our most reported APT for
the year.
This high level of cyber-espionage activity goes back years. In 2011-2012,
the group used a relatively tiny implant (known as “Sofacy” or SOURFACE)
as their first stage malware, which at the time had similarities with the old
Miniduke implants. This made us believe the two groups were connected,
although it looks they split ways at a certain point, with the original
Miniduke group switching to the CosmicDuke implant in 2014. The
division in malware was consistent and definitive at that point.
In 2013, the Sofacy group expanded their arsenal and added more
backdoors and tools, including CORESHELL, SPLM (aka Xagent, aka
CHOPSTICK), JHUHUGIT (which is built with code from the Carberp
sources), AZZY (aka ADVSTORESHELL, NETUI, EVILTOSS, and spans across
4-5 generations) and a few others. We’ve seen quite a few versions of
these implants, which were relatively widespread at some point or still
are. In 2015 we noticed another wave of attacks which took advantage of
a new release of the AZZY implant, largely undetected by antivirus
products. The new wave of attacks included a new generation of USB
stealers deployed by Sofacy, with initial versions dating to February 2015.
It appeared to be geared exclusively towards high profile targets.
Sofacy’s reported presence in the DNC network alongside APT29 brought
possibly the highest level of public attention to the group’s activities in
2016, especially when data from the compromise was leaked and
“weaponized”. And later 2016, their focus turned towards the Olympics’
and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and Court of Arbitration for
Sports (CAS), when individuals and servers in these organizations were
phished and compromised. In a similar vein with past CyberBerkut
activity, attackers hid behind anonymous activist groups like
“anonpoland”, and data from victimized organizations were similarly
leaked and “weaponized”.
This write-up will survey notables in the past year of 2017 Sofacy activity,
including their targeting, technology, and notes on their infrastructure.
No one research group has 100% global visibility, and our collected data is
presented accordingly. Here, external APT28 reports on 2017 Darkhotel-
style activity in Europe and Dealer’s Choice spearphishing are of interest.
From where we sit, 2017 Sofacy activity starts with a heavy focus on NATO
and Ukrainian partners, coinciding with lighter interest in Central Asian
targets, and finishing the second half of the year with a heavy focus on
Central Asian targets and some shift further East.