Compromised websites (watering holes)
Symantec telemetry suggests the Venom network consists of 84 compromised domains (websites). These
compromised websites are located in many different countries and were used in a watering-hole style operation
in which the attackers monitored and filtered visitors to those websites and focused on the ones of interest for
further action. The collection of compromised websites acted like a drag net designed to gather potential targets
of interest.
Symantec’s telemetry showed that thousands of computers visited the compromised websites between 2012
and 2014. Figure 3 shows how many visitors visited the compromised websites and as a result, were redirected
to another malicious server for fingerprinting. This is an indicator of how many computers were caught up in the
net and were scrutinized by the Waterbug attackers. The actual number of computers that became infected with
Wipbot and Turla was a much smaller subset.
Figure 3. Number of redirected computers between September 2012 and May 2014
During our observations, the number of compromised computers increased over time, with a noticeable spike in
November, 2013. This spike coincided with an increase in traffic being redirected by the compromised websites
to the malicious server. This increase in throughput may have come about because of an increase in the number
of compromised websites in use.
Where are the compromised websites?
The watering-hole websites used by the Waterbug group are located in many different countries. The greatest
number of compromised websites is found in France (19 percent), Germany (17 percent), Romania (17 percent),
and Spain (13 percent).
Page 7
Common vector
Analysis of the compromised
websites shows that the majority
of them used a common contentmanagement system (CMS) known
as TYPO3. Moreover, a number of
compromised websites also resided
on the same net block linked to a
number of hosting providers. These
hosting providers’ websites promote
the use of CMS-type tools, including
TYPO3, as blogging platforms
included in their hosting packages.
Industry breakdown
The compromised websites were
further categorized based on their
respective industries. The majority
of compromised websites were
government related (26 percent).
The list included embassies,
ministries of foreign affairs, and
other government institutions.
Publishing and media websites
(23 percent) were also used by the
attackers. In this case, the majority
of compromised publishing websites
were local news and broadcasting
companies.
Despite the range and number of
websites compromised and set up as
watering holes, the attackers were
only interested in a very specific
subset of the users who actually
visited these websites.
In effect, the collection of
compromised websites acted as a
net, much like a fishing net trawling
for fish in the ocean. In this case,
the net is set up so that unwanted
catches are allowed to escape
unscathed but the ones of interest
were redirected (based on their
source IP address) to deliver the
payload of Wipbot or Turla or both.
The Waterbug attack group
Figure 4. Top ten countries with compromised websites (watering holes)
Figure 5. Compromised sites categorized by industry
Page 8
The Waterbug attack group