How Does it Happen?
If we consider only the Chinese cyber attacks that have been reported we are only looking
at the tip of the iceberg. First, we tend only to see reports of British or American firms being
attacked, and we know that only a tiny minority of incidents are reported, because firms are
either unaware they have been attacked or are afraid that publicising an incident will
damage their brand, their company value or their personal careers. It is also likely that there
is a huge number of small to medium sized enterprises around the world that have no idea
that their crown jewels have been stolen.
Governments are unlikely to admit having lost data or to accuse China directly, for fear of
risking negative political and economic consequences. Individual victims living in China will
be unable to complain at the intrusion to their privacy, while those outside China may have
little recourse to any organisation which would take their claims seriously.
To map out the process and try to think about the scale of the attacks we must start with a
classic diagram of the intelligence cycle.
Setting Requirements
As we have already seen, China has no issue in identifying requirements. These lie across the
industrial, social and economic spectrum and represent the results of a mammoth effort to
identify weaknesses and areas for further development. Given that the requirements are
largely focussed around technical, economic and commercial development rather than
social development it is fair to expect that this exercise was not conducted by government
alone, but must have been supplemented by private sector (so far as there is one).
However, the setting of requirements covers many more areas than just cyber, so it would
not be correct to regard this effort as having been conducted simply to support electronic
attacks.
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 14 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data
Planning and Direction
This is where things get a little bit complicated. Planning and direction activities take place
on multiple levels – at a Party level, regional level, local level, within every key government
department, inside every company with a stake in fulfilling the requirements; and especially
within the military, who evidence suggests are behind the bulk of targeted attacks.
Collection
This area covers the whole process of target
identification, malware development, crafting the
attacks, designing the social engineering, initiating
attacks, controlling implants, escalating privileges on
the victim network, uploading further tools to maintain
and develop access, finding and exfiltrating data of
interest, and cleaning up traces of the attack to hinder
investigations.
It also requires infrastructure (owned or stolen) to be
constructed to support the attack, IP addresses or
domain names updated into the implants, training of
operators, language skills, management and some
form of quality control process to enable some visibility
over how well attacks are progressing.
While much of the attack process can be automated
or simplified so it can be delegated to less technically
adept operators, the scale of the attack is such that
many skilled hackers will be needed in an advisory capacity, to conduct manual elements
of the attack, to maintain a development program and, in some cases, to share details of
the latest attack vectors and vulnerabilities with those tasked with cyber defence to protect
Chinese systems from similar attacks. There will also almost certainly be an administration
process that logs attacks and targets, collates information on target systems, feeds data into
some form of risk assessment and ensures that all ongoing attacks are focussed on the
attainment of a specific requirement. This is no small operation.
Processing and Exploitation
If 1,000 attacks are successful and all result in large amounts of data being stolen from
compromised systems, that data needs to be put into a readable format (and decrypted if
necessary), made searchable, stored in a database and translated into Chinese – and all
these operations have to be carried out in bulk and in real time or something close to it, to
allow that information to be used as quickly and effectively as possible. Of course, the
actual number of active compromises at any one time is likely to be many magnitudes
higher than 1,000!
Analysis and Production
The first problem with analysing bulk amounts of data translated from other languages is
that machine translation is often of low quality, particularly for data such as emails written
using more colloquial terms. The second issue is that a large proportion of the stolen
documents is likely to be of a highly technical nature: If you steal documents from a widget
maker then you need at least a basic knowledge of widgets to be able to understand the
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 15 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data
potential value of a document and how best to exploit it. If there is a lot of widget data you
will need a lot of widget specialists or risk the data being out of date by the time it is
analysed. And just because someone understands widgets doesn’t mean that they
understand gizmos, so another team will be required to look at that data – and so on. These
analysts will provide feedback to operators, perhaps saying ‘get more’, or ‘this is no good,
get something else’. They may also provide search terms for documents. All this analysis will
then need to be written up into reports which should try to protect the source of the
information.
Dissemination
If the information is to be useful the reporting process has to be fast, in order to get useful
information to the right people. Dissemination of intelligence reports to security and
intelligence officers should be straightforward as all people in the process will have
clearances. But we can assume (although there are no guarantees) that this information is
highly classified and dissemination is carefully controlled, which makes disseminating it to
government officials a little more difficult, especially if those officials are based outside
Beijing, because encrypted links or maybe a network of trusted couriers will be required to
transport the reports.
The most difficult task will be delivering reports on commercial or technical development to
the right people. The most trusted individuals will be at the top of organisations, probably as
a result of their loyalty to the Party, but these are not necessarily the people able to
understand, interpret and exploit the information contained within the report. So the report
or elements of it must be passed downwards to those who do understand it. This means a
significant increase in the number of people who are aware, which represents a significant
risk. The Party must also decide to which companies it will pass information – if five
companies all produce widgets do you give the information on next generation widgets to
one of them, or all of them? We will look at one way the Party addresses this issue below.
Getting the dissemination right should in turn generate more requirements and help to
create a more refined requirement to feed back into the process and drive the next data
acquisition cycle.
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 16 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data