2. Attack Life Cycle
Based on the analysis of the collected artifacts, NCSC found artifacts that shows early signs of
compromise of the network that dates back few months prior to the destructive attack. This
illustrates the determination and persistence of the threat actor behind this attack that
follows the typical attack life cycle of nation-state threat actor. “Figure 1” below
demonstrates the high-level phases of the attack life cycle.
F IGURE 1: A TTACK L IFE C YCLE
4
Destructive Attack “DUSTMAN”
Technical Report
2.1. Initial Access:
NCSC assess with moderate confidence that the initial access of the attack occurred by
exploiting one of the remote execution vulnerabilities in a VPN appliance that was disclosed
in July 2019.
2.2. Establish Foothold:
In this phase, the threat actor has gained access to the VPN server.
2.3. Credential Harvesting and Lateral Movement:
The threat actor obtained domain admin and service accounts on the victim’s network, which
was used to run “DUSTMAN” malware on all of the victim’s systems. The attacker utilized the
anti-virus management console service account to distribute the malware across the network.
2.4. Weaponization
DUSTMAN malware was compiled, possibly on the threat actor infrastructure, few minutes
before deploying it on the victim’s network. This is inconsistent with known destructive
attacks as they usually tested f before being deployed.
2.5. Installment
The threat actor accessed the victim’s network and copied the malware and the remote
execution tool “PSEXEC” into the anti-virus management console server, which was
connected to all machines within the victim’s network due to the nature of its functionality.
Few minutes later, the attacker accessed the storage server of the victims and deleted all
volumes manually.
2.6. Execution
The attackers then executed a set of commands on the anti-virus management control to
distribute the malware to all connected machines, and through (PSEXEC) the malware
executed and dropped (3) additional files, two drivers and the wiper. Most of the connected
machines were wiped.
5
Destructive Attack “DUSTMAN”
Technical Report
NCSC believes that the dropped files from “DUSTMAN” would be detected by the current
Anti-Virus, However the files bypassed the antivirus detection and were executed
successfully. The threat actor either disabled the Anti-Virus or whitelisted the “Eldos
RawDisk” driver in order to allow the wiper execution. Fortunately, few machines were in the
sleeping mode at the time of this action and once these machines were started, the anti-virus
detected and prevented the execution of the “Eldos RawDisk” driver.
2.7. Covering Tracks
After the wiping mission is accomplished, the attacker logged to the VPN server and deleted
the recent VPN access log and downloaded a legitimate file deletion tool and used it to cover
their tracks. This download indicates that the threat actor identified few failed wipes on some
systems and attempted to clean any left artifact on these systems.
2.8. Wiping Sequence Timeline
T ABLE 1: W IPING S EQUENCE T IMELINE
6
Destructive Attack “DUSTMAN”
Technical Report