SLUB’s behavior
The new SLUB variant interacts with the Mattermost server to keep track of the deployment across
multiple infected machines. It creates an individual channel for each machine to keep track of them.
Figure 23 shows the general integration flow of the SLUB sample with Mattermost using the REST API.
All communication uses HTTP on port 443.
Figure 22. Unsecure (HTTP) Mattermost server operating on port 443
17 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
In the case of the samples deployed using the Chrome exploit, the channel used is labeled “ZM.” The
name channel “A” is generated uniquely for each infected machine. In addition to the main communicating
channel inside the selected Team, the SLUB samples also used the “notification” channel for real-time
indication of new infections.
Victim’s Mattermost
machine server
Figure 23. The Mattermost communication flow
Once the channel setup is finished, the SLUB sample starts collecting information about the machine
and exfiltrates it back to the Mattermost server. First, it runs a sequence of commands and sends the
information back to the channel. The following list shows all executed commands:
Figure 24. The commands for exfiltrating system information
After exfiltrating all the information from the previous command, SLUB captures a screenshot of the
machine and sends it to the malware channel.
We did a full simulation of the sample interacting with Mattermost in our lab environment. This gave
us excellent inside information on how it would work in a real scenario. The following image shows the
Mattermost interface after the malware infects a machine. A set of text posts with the output of the
aforementioned commands are also included in the screenshot.
18 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
Figure 25. Mattermost interface for exfiltrating system information
The objective of the SLUB samples was to exfiltrate a considerable amount of system information. We
also noticed that two other deployed samples allowed for additional control over the victim machine’s
behavior.