Introduction
Professor Gu Jian (顾剑) splashed cash on whoever could help him.
Standard password cracking techniques and dictionary attacks
served no use for the professor—he needed innovators. Only the
top talent would do and he did what he could to lure it out. “Believe
it or not, our professor has a lot of money,” one student said of
Professor Gu. [3] With payouts up to RMB 500K ($73,000), the
professor threw large sums of money at his problems. [4] “Our
teacher says if no one can crack it this time, then he’ll increase the
money on offer,” the student said. [5] Outside of his classroom,
Professor Gu scouted talent at hacking competitions on Hainan
University’s campus and encouraged students to attend by offering
cash prizes from one of his shell companies. That company, Hainan
Xiandun Technology Company, even listed its address of
incorporation as the university’s library. [6]
As a former PLA officer in the Guangzhou Military Region’s
Political Department, Professor Gu was a natural choice for
Hainan’s State Security Bureau when it sought to stand up its
hacking operations. Gu Jian served as a professor in the
Information Security Department of Hainan University and used his
position to run state-sponsored hacking operations. Beginning in
2013, Professor Gu posted job listings on internal university
boards, hosted hacking competitions where he scouted for talent,
and offered bounties on technical capabilities to his students and
coworkers. By the time Intrusion Truth— a cybersecurity blog
rumored to be a front for a national intelligence agency—outed
Professor Gu and his government contact in early 2020, his
hacking team had already victimized companies in the U.S. defense
industrial base. [7] Cybersecurity professionals assigned Professor
Gu’s state-sponsored team a standardized designation, Advanced
Persistent Threat 40 (APT40); it was a sign that the hackers were
notable operators.
Professor Gu’s experience running a state-sponsored APT is not an
aberration. Both the Ministry of State Security (MSS) and the
People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have used universities and their
employees to support and conduct cyber operations for many
years. [8] Six schools deserve particular scrutiny.
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 5
The universities analyzed in this report were chosen because of
their connections to known hacking groups. Universities qualified
for inclusion if they: 1) previously conducted cyber operations
(Hainan University, Southeast University, and Shanghai Jiao Tong
University), 2) partnered with specific divisions of the security
services that conduct cyber operations (Xidian University), or 3)
were noted by US cyber threat intelligence companies as places of
recruitment for APTs (Zhejiang University and Harbin Institute of
Technology). Other universities, aside from these six, also
contribute to China’s cyber capabilities albeit without apparent
connection to specific APTs, thus falling below the threshold for
analysis of this report. [9]
China’s Science of Military Strategy, a government publication of
military doctrine and strategic thinking put forward by the PLA’s
Academy of Military Science, has long emphasized the integration
of civilians into the military’s information warfare operations, the
domain that includes cyber operations. [10] The CCP’s strategy of
military-civil fusion aims to leverage private resources for
government use. Recent reporting shows that the MSS tasks some
companies to analyze bulk data collected from cyber espionage
operations—exemplifying one way MCF is put into practice in the
cyber domain. [11] Whereas other countries’ security services may
contract with consenting and interested companies, non
government entities in China accept working with the CCP as a
cost of doing business; rejecting the Party’s requests may be the
death-knell for an organization. As China’s security services
compete for access to information, cyber operators can leverage
close relationships with universities to develop new tactics,
techniques, and procedures. This quest for new capabilities pushes
academics and operators into new areas of research. The
integration of universities and state-sponsored espionage shortens
the time required to turn academic research into operational
capabilities and creates a window into operators’ possible research
priorities. Understanding current research can provide insights, and
potentially indicators, into possible future capabilities and
intentions. Research applying machine learning to offensive
techniques and defensive tactics offers China’s security services
new tools to leverage; research on the attack and defense of AI
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 6
systems opens a new battlespace for contest. Competition begets
innovation.
It is not this research, in and of itself, that warrants attention.
Research on machine learning and AI for cybersecurity, and the
attack and defense of those same systems are normal topics for
computer science researchers for good reason: machine learning
offers new tools for cybersecurity professionals to deploy. ML
based cyber threat detection, malware classification, and
inspection of encrypted data flows all promise future gains for
cybersecurity. By the same token, AI systems themselves must be
secured from attackers. Vulnerable systems proliferate as
companies monetize algorithms and governments deploy new
tools. Defending these systems requires anticipating how they may
be attacked, so researching attack methodologies is one way to
gain insight into adversaries’ efforts, which in turn could inform
efforts to bolster defenses. This dual-use nature of cybersecurity
research tints the lens of analysis.
This paper examines the relationship between China’s statebacked hacking teams, six universities, and the AI/ML research they
do that may affect future cyber operations. To do that, this paper
draws on open sources [12] to study the relationship between the
MSS, the PLA’s Strategic Support Force (PLASSF), which is
responsible for computer network operations and technical
reconnaissance, and these institutions. [13] The author examined
university webpages for each school’s cybersecurity (网络空间安全)
program and information security (信息安全) program. Faculty web
pages with biographical information claiming connection to the
security services, and research related to AI/ML are analyzed
below. University or government documents from public file
sharing sites, such as Baidu Wenku, bearing related search terms
are also included. Findings regarding academic papers from the
China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) database reflect
papers published by each school’s respective degree programs that
the CSET data team has determined to be related to AI/ML.
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 7