2. Introduction
The geopolitical conflicts in the Middle East have deepened over the last few years. The crisis
is taking many forms, and the conflict in cyberspace is intensifying as different sides try to shift
the struggle in their favour by exploiting cyber intelligence and distorting news.
Targeted cyberattacks have also increased rapidly in the region over the last few years, with
victims identified for almost every one of the major advanced cyberattack campaigns (Regin,
Epic Turla, Careto, Nettraveler, Red October, Flame, Gauss, Duqu, and more.)
The Global Research and Analysis Team (GReAT) at Kaspersky Lab has uncovered new
targeted attacks in the Middle East. Native Arabic-speaking cybercriminals have built advanced
methods and tools to deliver, hide and operate malware that they have also developed
themselves. This malware was originally discovered during an investigation of one of the
attacks in the Middle East.
Political activities and news are being actively used by the cybercriminals to entice victims
into opening files and attachments. Content has been created with professionalism, with well
designed visuals and interesting, familiar details for the victims, as if the information were long
awaited.
The victims of the attacks to date have been carefully chosen; they are active and influential
in their respective cultures, but also attractive to the cybercriminals as a source of intelligence
and a target for extortion.
The attackers have been operating for more than two years now, running different
campaigns, targeting different types of victims and different types of devices (including
Windows- and Android-based). We suspect that at least 30 people distributed across
different countries are operating the campaigns.
As a security organization, our analysis has focused only on the malware and the facts
uncovered during our research.
The falcon is a popular and rare bird that has existed for a long time in Arabian countries
with deserts, such as Egypt, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, Palestine, Saudi Arabia, and
Oman, among others. It is also a symbol of hunting and sharp vision. The Desert Falcons are
proficient cyberattackers, with carefully chosen targets, who are all thoroughly investigated
before being attacked and infected.
TLP: White