botnet? Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attacks, and may be rented out to
other cybercriminals. Botnets can also be an entry point for
ransomware attacks. Any machine that can connect to the Internet
can be compromised and turned into a device in a botnet, such as
computers, mobile devices, internet infrastructure hardware such as
network routers, and increasingly, Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices such as
smart home devices.
According to Kaspersky, there are three stages to building a botnet: [26]
PREP & EXPOSE
The victim device is ACTIVATE
victim device to malware
INFECT
carry out attacks
Upon activation, hackers send commands and control the botnet from a main server, known as the
Command & Control (C&C) server. Older C&C models use a centralized C&C server where all commands
are sent from. However, since this reduces the anonymity of the hackers, as their C&C servers can be
traced, newer C&C models now use a decentralized peer-to-peer model where the hackers can send
and spread commands to the entire botnet via any of the bots, thus concealing their identity.
26 Kaspersky, What is a Botnet? Available at: [https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/threats/botnet
attacks]
20
AFRICAN CYBERTHREAT ASSESSMENT REPORT
Figure 9. An overview of a botnet attack (Source: Kaspersky)
Situation in Africa
According to Trend Micro, the victims of botnets in Africa average 3,900 detections monthly, with
roughly 50,000 detections in total. Several threat actors in Africa are deploying spam run campaigns
with enclosed Trojan stealers such as Emotet, Lokibot, Agent Tesla, Fareit, etc. Surprisingly, Namibia
had the highest detections of Emotet, although it subsided after global efforts to disrupt the Emotet
botnet early this year. Other top malware detections are backdoor web shells and Dorkbot that is able
to spread via removable drives, e-mail and social media.
Cybercriminals are recruiting new members by training and introducing several cybercrime toolkits.
This has been one of the reasons for the expansion of DDoS operations of this type with cybercrime as
a service available through the open and dark Web environments. The expansion of online
communication platforms has provided a learning environment for cybercriminals to develop and
enhance their skills, learn and exchange information on cybercrime toolkits, and even share their
lessons learnt, stolen data and successful exploits with other individuals.
There have been many high-profile instances of such DDoS attacks on critical infrastructure in Africa
in the past five years. For example, the 2016 Mirai botnet DDoS attack on Liberia crippled the internet
infrastructure of the entire country, with attacks of over 500 gigabytes-per-second (Gbps), then among
the largest DDoS attacks ever. [27] More recently, in September 2019, a large South African Internet
Service Provider (ISP) was also the victim of a DDoS attack which brought it down for an entire day. [28]
Similarly, in October 2019 and 2020, South African banks also experienced a sustained wave of DDoS
attacks, though no significant damage was reported. Although there have been no significant recent
cyber incidents arising from DDoS attacks, DDoS attacks remain a concerning threat that organizations
in Africa will need to guard against.
27 ZDNET, 'Carpet-bombing' DDoS attack takes down South African ISP for an entire day. Cimpanu, C. 2019.
Available at: [https://www.zdnet.com/article/carpet-bombing-DDoS-attack-takes-down-south-African-ispfor-an-entire-day/]
28 CPO Magazine, Sustained DDoS Attack on South African Banks Accompanied by Ransom Notes. Ikeda, S. 2019.
Available at: [https://www.cpomagazine.com/cyber-security/sustained-DDoS-attack-on-south-Africanbanks-accompanied-by-ransom-notes/]
21
AFRICAN CYBERTHREAT ASSESSMENT REPORT
down systems, disrupting the operations of victim organizations by
rendering their data and systems inaccessible. Ransomware
actors subsequently demand a ransom, usually in
cryptocurrency for anonymity, in exchange for decrypting
the data. It should be noted that the deployment of
ransomware code onto an organization’s network follows a
legitimate (trusted insider) or illegitimate breach of that network,
exploration of the network by cybercriminals, and the theft of
organizational information and data. The deployment of ransomware is
generally the final phase of a successful hack or penetration on that organization.
With TTPs becoming ever more sophisticated, the facilitation of ransomware attacks by organized
crime groups has expanded to include double and triple extortions – where the initial ransomware
attack is compounded by the theft of sensitive company data, ransom demands from victims with the
threat of publicly shaming them through the release of stolen information and the re-exploitation of
previously-exposed vulnerabilities within organizations to leave them facing a never-ending cycle of
ransomware attacks.
Capable of bringing governments, business and supply chains to a grinding halt, the impact of
ransomware attacks also has a reputational impact on victims alongside the economic impact, with
the latter evidenced in research from INTERPOL’s private partner, Palo Alto Networks, showing that
the average ransomware payment has accelerated to more than 300,000 USD. [29]
This impact is further compounded when we consider the growing adoption of the TTP by organized
crime groups which results in key files and backups being deleted, adding to the estimated average
downtime of 21 days for each ransomware attack [30] . With research suggesting a ransomware attack
occurs every 11
seconds, and given the
previously-highlighted
cyber vulnerabilities
within the African
region, the need for
both a thorough
understanding of the
ransomware situation
within Africa and
implementation of the
prevent and protect
principles has never
been more urgent.
29 Palo Alto Networks, Extortion Payments Hit New Records as Ransomware Crisis Intensifies, Baylor, Brown
and Martineau, August 2021. Available at: [https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/blog/2021/08/ransomwarecrisis/]
30 Forbes, Ransomware is everywhere, Durbin, S., 2021. Available at:
[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesbusinesscouncil/2021/06/01/ransomware-is-everywhereheres-whatyou-need-to-consider/?sh=1ded127c1f0f.]
22
AFRICAN CYBERTHREAT ASSESSMENT REPORT
Situation in Africa
Research from Kaspersky shows that there were more than 1.5 million ransomware detections in 2020.
In the first quarter of 2021, Egypt, South Africa, and Tunisia suffered the most with the highest
detection counts across Africa, and Egypt alone accounting for almost 35% of all ransomware
detections in Africa (see Table 2).
Table 2: Ransomware detection in Africa in March 2021 (Source: Trend Micro)
Although the ratio of overall ransomware detections within Africa ranked in the bottom 10% compared
to all other regions, research from Check Point Software Technologies reported that African
organizations have seen the “highest increase in attacks, at 34%”, from January to April 2021. [31]
According to the Africa Center for Strategic Studies in January 2021, “as Internet penetration rises and
systems become more connected, critical infrastructure across Africa will likely become even more
vulnerable to costly, disruptive cyberattacks”. [32]
In Africa, Wannacry remains a top ransomware program and cybercriminals are also expanding their
operations into double extortion. One example is the notorious ransomware Nefilim, where it affects
banking and government sectors.
31 Checkpoint, The New Ransomware Threat: Triple Extortion, 2020. Available at:
[https://blog.checkpoint.com/2021/05/12/the-new-ransomware-threat-triple-extortion/]
32 Africa Center for Strategic Studies, Africa’s Evolving Cyber Threats. Allen, N. January 2021. Available at:
[https://Africacenter.org/spotlight/Africa-evolving-cyber-threats/]
23
AFRICAN CYBERTHREAT ASSESSMENT REPORT
Figure 6. Targeted ransomware in Africa, unique detections and selected families (Source: Trend Micro)
According to Figure 6 above, South Africa was the country most heavily affected by targeted
ransomware in the first quarter of 2021, with a variety of families such as Crysis, Nefilim, Ryuk, Clop,
and Conti ransomware. Subsequently, Egypt was the next hardest-hit country with a similar profile of
targeted ransomware detection. Tunisia was the third most affected country, targeted mainly with
Egregor (before its shutdown in February 2021), Ryuk, and Sekhmet ransomware.
Figure 7. Industries affected by ransomware in Africa from January 1 to April 2021 (Source: Trend Micro)
24
AFRICAN CYBERTHREAT ASSESSMENT REPORT
The industries most affected in Africa are the government and food-and-beverage sectors, according
to Trend Micro (see Figure 7). It has been observed that the reason the Wannacry ransomware is so
prevalent in the government sector is that many machines have not been patched for the vulnerability
in the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol, which is a known target of Wannacry ransomware.
Meanwhile, there is also a variety of old ransomware families like Cerber, Gandcrab, Locky, Cryptesla
that target the government, food-and-beverage, and manufacturing sectors. However, one notable
exception is the newer and notorious Nefilim ransomware, discovered in March 2020, [33] which is
targeting the banking industry in the Africa Region.
Since ransomware actors are profit-driven, the problem will persist globally as long as victim
organizations are willing or forced to pay ransoms. According to the Brookings Institution in March
2021, cyber threats in Africa are exacerbated by vulnerabilities in public cybersecurity strategies and
the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. [34]