Integration with Unified Action Partners
Army forces conduct operations as part of a joint force and routinely work with unified
action partners as part of unified action. As such, Army commanders must work with
unified action partners throughout the operations process. This appendix discusses how
commanders and staffs at the joint level integrate cyberspace operations and
electromagnetic warfare with various unified action partners.
JOINT OPERATIONS CONSIDERATIONS
C-1. Army operations that involve the use of cyberspace and the Electromagnetic Spectrum (EMS) can have
joint implications. Each Service component has cyberspace operations, EMS requirements, and EW
capabilities that contribute to an integrated whole, synchronized at the JTF headquarters. The CEMA section
ensures that cyberspace operations and EW align with joint IO, spectrum management operations (SMO),
and doctrine.
C-2. An Army corps assigned as a JTF headquarters combines its CEMA section, IO officer, and spectrum
management chief to establish a JEMSOC. Each Service component subordinate to the JTF headquarters
establishes an EMSO cell to fuse with the JEMSOC. A corps or division assigned as a joint force headquarters
is also required to establish an EMSO cell by fusing its CEMA section, IO officer, and spectrum management
chief.
C-3. The theater campaign plan guides the planning of cyberspace and EW capabilities. The Army
contributes an integrated cyberspace and EW plan to support joint operations.
Note. For more information on joint IO, see JP 3-13. For more information on joint spectrum
management operations, see JP 3-85.
INTERAGENCY AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
C-4. Army commanders must consider the unique capabilities, structures, and priorities of interagency and
intergovernmental partners before conducting cyberspace operations and EW. Successful operations that
involve unified action partners require a shared understanding and common objective for the operation.
C-5. Interagency and intergovernmental partners often have command relationships, lines of authority, and
planning processes that vary significantly from the Army. Understanding these authorities and processes
generally require liaison elements to be in place before operations, as it will likely be too late and ineffective
to establish these elements after the fact. Partners often manage tasks through committees, steering groups,
and interagency working groups organized along functional lines. The commander is responsible for
developing interagency and intergovernmental coordination requirements and establishing a liaison element.
The liaison element is similar to that required for multinational operations.
C-6. Interagency and intergovernmental partners sometimes have policies that differ or are more restrictive
than the Army’s policies. These differences manifest in legal authorities, roles, responsibilities, procedures,
and decision-making processes. Commanders ensure interagency and intergovernmental planners understand
military capabilities, requirements, operational limitations, liaisons, and legal considerations. Staff
integrating these partners into operations must understand the nature of these relationships and types of
support that partners can provide. Commanders will likely need to achieve consensus in the absence of a
formal command structure to accomplish mission objectives with these organizations.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 C-1
Appendix C
C-7. Commanders attempt to understand less restrictive authorities and policies that interagency and
intergovernmental partners follow. Some of their authorities and policies may consist of applications that
may achieve the desired effect more economically, proficiently, or with fewer risks of causing cascading
effects. Commanders should be open to using these partner authorities when practical.
MULTINATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
C-8. Army units executing cyberspace operations and EW within multinational operations require a robust
liaison effort. Effective liaison mitigates complications caused by differences in policy and facilitates system
integration and information sharing.
C-9. Differences in national standards and laws on sovereignty in cyberspace and the EMS may affect the
willingness or the legality of a country’s participation in cyberspace operations and EW. Some partners may
refuse to participate, while others will enable or undertake their operations separate from the Army
commander’s mission.
C-10. Connectivity is essential when multi-national forces function in mutual support during combat
operations. Interoperability issues may compound connectivity issues. Hardware and software
incompatibilities and disparities in standards, information security, and cyberspace security policy may cause
gaps in protection or capability that require additional effort to fix. Such issues will likely slow down the
collection, dissemination, and sharing of information among partners. Commanders and staffs should
anticipate connectivity incompatibilities and disparities before entering a multinational operation.
C-11. Intelligence and information sharing with allies and multinational partners are vital during
multinational operations. Special attention and awareness are essential when sharing information due to
specific and varying classification sharing policies. When synchronizing cyberspace operations and EW with
multinational partners, Army units must ensure adherence to foreign disclosure and cyberspace security
procedures. Security restrictions may prevent full disclosure of some cyberspace and EW capabilities or
planning, limiting synchronization efforts. Effective synchronization requires access to systems and
information at the lowest appropriate security classification level. Commanders are responsible for
establishing procedures for foreign disclosure of intelligence information. For more information regarding
foreign disclosure, refer to AR 380-10.
NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS CONSIDERATIONS
C-12. Commanders ensure adherence to cyberspace security procedures when conducting cyberspace
operations with nongovernmental organizations. Planning with nongovernmental organizations may be
necessary for foreign humanitarian assistance, peace operations, and civil-military operations. Incorporating
these organizations into an operation requires the commander to balance the need of the nongovernmental
organization for information with operation security. Many nongovernmental organizations may be hesitant
to become associated with the military to prevent compromising their status as independent entities. Many
seek to maintain this status to avoid losing their freedom of movement or members being at risk in hostile
environments. Strategic level planning for the inclusion of nongovernmental organizations into civil affairs
operations will likely coordinate cyberspace operations.
HOST-NATION CONSIDERATIONS
C-13. Each nation has sovereignty over its EMS and cyberspace components within its geographic area. The
use of a nation’s cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum (EMS) require coordination and negotiation
through formal approvals and certifications. Host nation coordination concerning the use of the EMS is a
function of spectrum management operations. Coordinating spectrum use is based mainly on the potential
for electromagnetic interference (EMI) with local receivers. This coordination ensures initial spectrum
availability and supportability for operations and establishes cyberspace availability, such as bandwidth
allocation. The purpose of coordination is to develop an interoperable cyberspace defense capability.
Consideration of countries adjacent to a host nation is essential, especially if forces stage, train, or operate
within these countries. Likewise, compatibility of protective measures, such as countermeasures systems, is
critical to avoid system fratricide.
C-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Integration with Unified Action Partners
INSTALLATION CONSIDERATIONS
C-14. Cyberspace operations and EW systems are complex and continually evolving. Warfighter readiness
and the ability to fight upon arrival are crucial for a fully capable, ready force. Executing cyberspace
operations and EW in a garrison environment presents unique challenges for several reasons. Leaders not
physically co-located require the use telephonic or virtual collaboration and coordination. In addition,
constraints due to laws, policies, and regulations may limit the use of cyberspace operations and EW on an
installation. Specific mission sets for different installations (testing, training, and maintenance) may have
special requirements. Additionally, establishing working relationships with garrison organizations such as
the Network Enterprise Center is essential. The CEWO works with the installation and host nation agencies
to incorporate cyberspace operations and EW training into their organization’s exercises.
PRIVATE INDUSTRY CONSIDERATIONS
C-15. Private industry plays a significant role in cyberspace and the EMS. The Army relies on its connectivity
with its defense industrial base partners and the private sector for many of its non-warfighting day-to-day
functions for support and sustainment. Examples include electronic databases and interfaces for medical
services, accounting and finance services, personnel records, equipment maintenance, and logistics functions.
Global transport and logistics require data exchange between military and private networks. The Army relies
on shipping companies, transportation grid providers, and suppliers as a part of the global transportation
system.
C-16. The security and reliability of private industry networks directly affect Department of Defense (DOD)
operations. DOD personnel does not administer these networks; however, they are still essential to effective
Army operations. Responsibility for these networks falls on the network owners.
C-17. Private industry has proven to be the primary catalyst for advancements in information technology
resulting in the DOD becoming increasingly reliant on commercial off-the-shelf technology. Many of these
products are developed by, manufactured by, or have components produced by foreign countries. These
manufacturers, vendors, service providers, and developers can be influenced by adversaries or unwittingly
used by them to provide counterfeit products or products that have built-in vulnerabilities. The DD Form
1494 ( Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation ) process determines the compatibility and
interoperability of commercial off-the-shelf systems that use the EMS to support national needs. The DOD
follows risk assessments and procedures to ensure proper supply chain management and that the acquisition
of software and hardware does not adversely affect the security of the Department of Defense information
network (DODIN).
C-18. The DODIN resides on commercial networks as undersea cables, fiber optic networks,
telecommunication services, satellite and microwave antennas from local telephone companies, and leased
channels from satellites. Many of these commercial networks are under foreign ownership, control, and
influence. Reliance on commercial systems makes conducting cyberspace operations and EW vulnerable to
access denial, service interruption, communications interception and monitoring, infiltration, and data
compromise. Army commanders pursue risk mitigation through adherence to operational security,
cyberspace security policies, inspections of vendor-supplied equipment, encryption, and enforcing
cybersecurity training requirements.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 C-3