Ziv Chang, Kenney Lu, Aaron Luo, Cedric Pernet, Jay Yaneza
(Trend Micro Cybersafety Solutions Team)
TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted upon
without the benefit of legal advice based on the particular
facts and circumstances presented and nothing herein
should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro reserves the
right to modify the contents of this document at any time
without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy is
not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise related
to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to the
original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
If a single piece of valuable information can put a nation at a disadvantage, what could much more
stolen data do? A group of China-based threat actors known as “Emissary Panda [1] ” or “Threat
Group-3390 (TG-3390) [2] ” may know the answer, as they have been seen stealing terabytes of
confidential data from employees of high-technology companies in the United States (US) since
2013.
Their target? Government defense contractors and related companies. They specifically
targeted the directors and managers of US companies in the electric, aerospace, intelligence,
telecommunications, energy, and nuclear engineering industries, among others. Looking at the
targets, we believe the attackers constantly monitored technology-inclined US government
contractors.
In a cyber-espionage operation we dubbed “Iron Tiger,” the actors first spent years spying on
political targets and government agencies in China, Hong Kong, and the Philippines back in 2010
before eyeing technology-related organizations in the US. Given the huge geographical shift in
target, it is very likely that Iron Tiger is only part of a bigger campaign where specific targets are
assigned to various teams.
The actors have stolen emails, full Active Directory® dumps, intellectual property, strategic
planning documents, and budget- or finance-related content—all of which can be used to sabotage
target governments’ or private organizations’ plans. We’ve even seen them nab up to 58GB
worth of data from a single target. They could have even stolen terabytes of data in total.
We found convincing evidence pointing to China as the threat actors’ primary location. These
indicators include the use of virtual private network (VPN) servers that only accepted China
based registrants, Chinese file names and passwords, and China-registered domains. Specifically
following two virtual aliases, “phpxss” and “ershao,” we were able to attribute operational
activities to a key personality physically located in China.
Note that the actors are skilled in launching digital attacks. They not only followed new malware
creation tool releases but also used customized tools like dnstunserver and abused legitimate
services like Blogspot™ and the Google Cloud Platform™. Using legitimate services allowed
them to evade monitoring and efficiently change command-and-control (C&C) servers in case
of discovery.
While their techniques may be quite advanced, they adapt to their target networks’ security
levels and sparingly used sophisticated methods. Like any organized and motivated team, they
exerted minimal effort to achieve maximum results.