RShell Mach-O implant
https://blog.sekoia.io/luckymouse-uses-a-backdoored-electron-app-to-target-macos/ 3/9
8/15/22, 4:14 PM LuckyMouse uses a backdoored Electron app to target MacOS - SEKOIA.IO Blog
The downloaded implant, named RShell by its developers, is written in C++ and embeds
the Boost.Asio and nlohmann/json libraries. This backdoor uses BJSON (Binary JSON)
over TCP sockets to communicate with its command and control server, without any
encryption and does not display a persistence mechanism.
Upon execution, RShell backdoor attempts to connect with the C2 server. This “Hello
message” to the C2 server contains:
a random GUID, added to each response to the C2 server
the hostname
the IPv4 adresses
the type of connection (“login” for instance)
the current username
the kernel version.
Figure 4. Hello packet from the implant.
RShell backdoor accepts two “types” of commands: “cmd” and “file”.
The group “cmd” contains three commands:
init(): start a bash
data(data): write data to the bash
close(): ends up the bash.
The second type of commands, “file”, enable interactions with the filesystem:
dir(path): returns a list of files and subdirectories for the specified path
init(): returns a list of files and subdirectories for the root filesystem (equivalent to
dir(“/”))
down(path): opens a file in binary and read-only mode and returns the size of the
file
read(path): reads the specified file. The file must first have been opened with the
down command
upload(path): opens a file in binary and write-only mode
write(data, path): writes data to the specified file. As for the read command, the file
must first have been opened with the upload command before
del(path): delete the specified file or directory
https://blog.sekoia.io/luckymouse-uses-a-backdoored-electron-app-to-target-macos/ 4/9
8/15/22, 4:14 PM LuckyMouse uses a backdoored Electron app to target MacOS - SEKOIA.IO Blog
close(path): closes the file
The following figures present an example of request and response for the dir command.
Figure 5. Example of dir request
Figure 6. Example of dir response
A keepalive message is sent to the C2 server every 40 seconds. The server must echo this
message. Based on this observation, we created a Suricata rule to spot this threat in your
network flows (see Appendix).