A of some of the group’s more commonly
used tools indicates that APT28 has been
systematically updating their tools since 2007.
APT28 is most likely supported by a group of
developers creating tools intended for long-term
use and versatility, who make an effort to
obfuscate their activity. This suggests that APT28
receives direct ongoing financial and other
resources from a well-established organization,
most likely a nation state government. APT28’s
malware settings suggest that the developers
have done the majority of their work in a Russian
language build environment during Russian
business hours, which suggests that the Russian
government is APT28’s sponsor.
Some of APT28’s more commonly used tools are
the SOURFACE downloader, its second stage
backdoor EVILTOSS, and a modular family of
implants that we call CHOPSTICK.

SOURFACE: This downloader is typically
called Sofacy within the cyber security
community. However because we have
observed the name “Sofacy” used to refer to
APT28 malware generally (to include the
SOURFACE dropper, EVILTOSS,

CHOPSTICK, and the credential harvester
OLDBAIT), we are using the name
SOURFACE to precisely refer to a specific
downloader. This downloader obtains a
second-stage backdoor from a C2 server.
CORESHELL is an updated version of
SOURFACE.

EVILTOSS: This backdoor has been delivered

through the SOURFACE downloader to gain
system access for reconnaissance,
monitoring, credential theft, and shellcode
execution.

CHOPSTICK: This is a modular implant
compiled from a software framework that
provides tailored functionality and flexibility.

19 fireeye.com
APT 28: A Window into Russia’s Cyber Espionage Operations?
A number of the malware variants that we profile
below, especially the CHOPSTICK family,
demonstrate formal coding practices indicative of
methodical, diligent programmers. The modularity
of CHOPSTICK alone, with its flexible and lasting
platform, demonstrates planning for long-term
use and versatility. We have also noted that
APT28 tailors implants to their target
environments, configuring them to use local
network resources such as email servers.
APT28 has attempted to obfuscate their code and
implement counter-analysis techniques:
20 fireeye.com

One of the latest samples of CORESHELL
includes counter-reverse engineering tactics

via unused machine instructions. This would
hinder static analysis of CORESHELL behavior
by creating a large amount of unnecessary
noise in the disassembly.


A number of CORESHELL droppers also
conduct runtime checks, attempting to
determine if they are executing in an analysis
environment, and if so, they do not trigger
their payloads.


Many samples across the SOURFACE/


CORESHELL, CHOPSTICK, and EVILTOSS
APT 28: A Window into Russia’s Cyber Espionage Operations?
malware families obfuscate strings that are
decoded at runtime. Two of the malware
families (SOURFACE/CORESHELL and
EVILTOSS) use the same decryption
sequence and similar algorithms for string
encoding and decoding. These families
encode their strings at compile time using a
custom stream cipher. From a high level,
these ciphers share a similar design across
the malware families but differ slightly in the
internal arithmetic operations.
           - APT28 has employed RSA encryption to

protect files and stolen information moved
from the victim’s network to the controller.
APT28 has made incremental and systematic
changes to the SOURFACE downloader and its
surrounding ecosystem since as early as 2007.
These changes indicate a long-standing and
dedicated development effort behind APT28. We
have observed samples of the SOURFACE
downloader compiled between 2007 and 2014.
We call SOURFACE (samples are frequently
named netids.dll) a first stage downloader
because its primary job is to retrieve a second
stage payload from a C2 server. Until 2013, the
SOURFACE downloader used hard-coded IP
addresses for C2 communications, whereas the
future CORESHELL samples use domains.