The campaign
According to our telemetry, most of the time, both tools have been deployed on the same
machine. The combination of the tools gives the attacker both a command-line interface and a
graphical interface to the compromised computer.
In the case of the whole toolset being deployed on the machine, here is an example scenario for
the attack:
The attacker detects that the victim has their screen locked and thus, most probably, is not using
the computer (either via BalkanDoor sending screenshot showing that computer is locked, or via
the View Only mode of BalkanRAT). Via the BalkanDoor backdoor, the attacker sends a backdoor
command to unlock the screen… and using BalkanRAT, they can do whatever they want on the
computer.
However, even if the victim does not use their computer, the chance of them spotting the actions
performed by the attackers is still there. Even with this disadvantage, using the RDS tool may be
useful. The attacker is not limited by the commands shipped in the backdoor, or by their
programming skills: manually, they can perform actions that would require writing a lot of code if a
backdoor was the only tool available.
In principle, the Balkan- toolset could be used for espionage, among other possible goals.
However, not only the campaign’s targets and distribution, but also our analysis of the Balkan
toolset tools show that the attackers are going after money instead of espionage.
The BalkanDoor backdoor does not implement any exfiltration channel. Presumably, if the
campaign were intended for espionage, the attackers would need an exfiltration channel for
uploading the collected data – at least as a backup to manual exfiltration, which might not be
always an option.
On the contrary – and supporting the notion that the attackers’ goal has been to commit some
financial crime – we’ve seen BalkanRAT dropping a tool that can list available smart cards, via the
SCardListReadersA/ SCardConnectA API functions. Smart cards are usually issued by banks or
governments for confirmation of the holder’s identity. If misused, smart cards can facilitate
illegal/fraudulent activities, e.g. digitally signing a contract, validating a money transaction etc.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/14/balkans-businesses-double-barreled-weapon/ In the past, we’ve seen this feature in Operation Buhtrap, a campaign targeting Russian banks. 4/18
8/15/2019 In the Balkans, businesses are under fire from a double ~~-~~ barreled weapon | WeLiveSecurity