DarkMatter — Shifting in the Winds
Following former DarkMatter researcher Taha Karim’s presentation on a group he named WINDSHIFT
(Karim, 2018), there was a lot of speculation in the security community about exactly who or what
the group was. Several write-ups appeared in the following months concerning WINDSHIFT including
by Palo Alto (McCabe, 2019) and Objective-See (Wardle, 2018). Both of these reports included a
deeper analysis of the MacOS payloads deployed by the group and provided some additional linked
domains including “string2me[.]com” and “domforworld[.]com”.
Karim stated that the group employed “DES with a hardcoded Key and IV [initialization vector]” and
the common crypto library function CCCrypt in their MacOS samples. This fact directly aligned
with what Cisco Talos’ findings about the iOS samples from their follow-on MDM write-up. While
BlackBerry lacked access to the iOS samples Cisco analyzed, they included enough information
to replicate their work when cross-referenced with the initialization vector that was included in
Karim’s Objective-C code slide. With a bit of experimentation BlackBerry confirmed that both sets of
samples used the same initialization vector (IV), “0x0102030405060708”, although they appeared
to use differing encryption keys. The initialization vector isn’t unique, but it’s more common to see
and initialization vector with all zeroes, or else completely random values. As such, the choice of
this particular sequence of numbers in the IV is indicative of style.
In reading Cisco Talos’ work, BlackBerry found they had built a script for decryption, but didn’t share
the code for it, as can be seen below:
Figure 31: Cisco Talos demonstrating a decryption script
BlackBerry constructed the following Python snippet that fulfilled the same purpose.
Figure 32: Python snippet to decrypt DES strings from Cisco Talos’ blog
In his first talk about WINDSHIFT, Karim provided a single C2 domain, “flux2key[.]com”, and stated
that DarkMatter discovered a Windows sample in May of 2018 that communicated with the same
domain as the MacOS malware. The hash of this sample was not shared at the time, but BlackBerry
managed to find the following Windows executable which beaconed to the same domain exactly
as Karim described:
65194c18571f36e45349d0b57d5b1714d1b2846da38a6f4ab0585371691f7705
Based upon what was presented in his slides, Karim instrumented the decoding of the strings using
the Unicorn emulator. BlackBerry found that the Python functions listed above could be readily used
to decode the majority of strings in this particular file. This discovery, along with significant, unique
code similarities, provided a direct, high confidence link back to Kaspersky’s InPage writeup, Cisco’s
MDM findings, and Trend Micro’s URPAGE discoveries. BlackBerry assesses with high confidence
that WINDSHIFT and BAHAMUT are the same group. In sum, we are now able to assess with
confidence that BAHAMUT has successfully developed and deployed malware for Android, iOS,
MacOS, and Windows.