IRAN
↘
Consistent Iranian
Hacktivist Activity
In addition to targeted
intrusion activity, Iranian
hacktivists continued to
launch operations parallel
to the foreign policy
objectives of the Iranian
government throughout

Such operations

came about most
frequently in response
to sporadic escalations
in regional tensions,
especially during instances
of widespread media
speculation surrounding
Israeli actions toward Iran,
such as the purported
Israeli sabotaging of Iranian
nuclear facilities and, most
starkly, the November
assassination of Iranian
nuclear scientist Mohsen
Fakhrizadeh. Groups
such as ICTUS Team,
Unidentified Team and
Bax026 (aka FRONTLINE
JACKAL) have maintained
social media channels
for the dissemination of
nationalistic messaging
as well as claims of
network compromise of
infrastructure belonging to
organizations within Israel
and allied governments,
especially the United
States.
during July 2020, there was an overlap between targeted intrusion operations
by STATIC KITTEN and disruption-oriented Thanos ransomware activity by the
TarnishedGauntlet activity cluster. This overlap included both the adversary and
the activity cluster targeting the same victims at the same time, which could
represent coordinated intrusion activity between the two actors. Finally, since at
least November 2020, PIONEER KITTEN has been conducting a disruption-oriented
ransomware campaign leveraging the Pay2Key ransomware variant, primarily
deployed against Israeli targets. Unlike that adversary’s earlier eCrime activity, this
Pay2Key activity is likely being undertaken at the direction of the Iranian government
and appears not to be oriented toward revenue generation.
Outlook
While coordination between STATIC KITTEN and TarnishedGauntlet remains
uncorroborated, PIONEER KITTEN’s shift toward disruptive ransomware operations
eerily parallels the disruptive impacts of TarnishedGauntlet’s Thanos operations
against STATIC KITTEN victims. As Iranian adversaries continue to be publicly
targeted by dissident entities, leak outlets, Western government advisories, and
industry reporting, it is likely that Iranian cyber operations will continue to experiment
with blurring the lines between eCrime and targeted intrusion tradecraft in order
to generate desired effects or at least complicate attempts at attribution. This is
anticipated to occur while Iranian adversaries continue to engage in traditional
intelligence activities, as well as support information operations. It remains to be
seen whether or not the unified intelligence collection enterprise surrounding HELIX
KITTEN will continue to exhibit discrete collection foci or if it will shift in response to
future developments.
In 2020, Iran elected an IRGC-dominated parliament and experienced worsening
relations with its principal rivals, the U.S., Saudi Arabia and Israel. In 2021, Iranian
cyber adversaries and Iran-backed militias are likely to remain engaged in
ongoing, low-level conflicts focused on targeting these countries; these conflicts
have historically been highlighted by instances of kinetic action and disruptive
cyberattacks by both sides. Iran is also likely to experience increasing regional
isolation following significant diplomatic overtures by Gulf Arab states to Israel,
and expectations for 2021 to see a potential hardliner, IRGC-backed presidential
candidate emerge victorious. CrowdStrike Intelligence assesses that these factors
will likely contribute a highly permissive environment for Iranian cyber adversaries to
aid internal suppression and pursue targeted intrusions abroad.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 44