Attack Overview
The attack is very simple in its delivery and silent in delivering its payload. The attack starts when the attacker sends a
website URL (through SMS, email, social media, or any other message) to an identified target. The user only has to take
one action--click on the link. Once the user clicks the link, the software silently carries out a series of exploits against the
victim’s device to remotely jailbreak it so that the espionage software packages can be installed. The user’s only indication
that anything happened will be that the browser closes after the link is clicked.
The espionage software contains malicious code, processes, and apps that are used to spy, collect data, and report back
what the user does on the device. This spyware can access and exfiltrate messages, calls, emails, logs, and more from
apps including, but not limited to:
 - Gmail


 - Facetime


 - Facebook


 - Line


 - Mail.Ru

i


Calendar


WeChat


Surespot


Tango


WhatsApp


Viber


Skype


Telegram


i
i
CVE-2016-4655 Two kernel exploits
Exploit against Safari (CVE-2016-4656
& CVE-2016-4657)
jailbreak the device
i


Persistence and stealth monitoring


Establishes communication


to Command & Control
Infrastructure

Hooks all communication

and starts stealing data
i
In order to accomplish this, the spyware, once it jailbreaks the user’s phone, does not download malicious versions of
these apps to the victim’s device in order to capture data, rather it compromises the original apps already installed on the
device. This includes pre-installed apps such as Facetime and Calendar and those from the official App Store.
Usually, iOS security mechanisms prevent normal apps from spying on each other, but spying “hooks” can be installed
on a jailbroken device. Pegasus takes advantage of both the remote jailbreak exploit and a technique called “hooking.”
The hooking is accomplished by inserting Pegasus’ dynamic libraries into the legitimate processes running on the device.
These dynamic libraries can be used to hook the apps using a framework called Cydia Mobile Substrate, known to the
iOS jailbreak community, and which Pegasus uses as part of the exploit.
A user infected with this spyware is under complete surveillance by the attacker because, in addition to the apps listed
above, it also spies on:
 - Phone calls


 - Call logs


 - SMS messages the victim sends or receives


 - Audio and video communications that (in the words a founder of NSO Group) turns the phone into a “walkie-talkie” [4]

4 ~~h~~ ttp://www.ft.com/cms/s/9869fd34-c7ac-11e2-be27-00144feab7de,Authorised=false.html?siteedition=intl&_i_location=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.
ft.com%2Fcms%2Fs%2F0%2F9869fd34-c7ac-11e2-be27-00144feab7de.html%3Fsiteedition%3Dintl&_i_referer=&classifcationi =conditional_standard&iab=barrier-app#axzz4I8PLStjS
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS OF PEGASUS SPYWARE | 7
Access to this content could be used to gain further access into other accounts owned by the target, such as banking,
email, and other services he/she may use on or off the device.
The attack is comprised of three separate stages that contain both the exploit code and the espionage software. The
stages are sequential; each stage is required to successfully decode, exploit, install, and run the subsequent stage.
Each stage leverages one of the Trident vulnerabilities in order to run successfully.
STAGE 1 Delivery and WebKit vulnerability: This stage comes down over the initial URL in the form of an HTML
file (1411194s) that exploits a vulnerability (CVE-2016-4655) in WebKit (used in Safari and other browsers).
STAGE 2 Jailbreak:
This stage is downloaded from the first stage code based on the device type (32-bit vs 64
bit). Stage 2 is downloaded as an obfuscated and encrypted package. Each package is encrypted with unique keys
at each download, making traditional network-based controls ineffective. It contains the code that is needed to
exploit the iOS Kernel (CVE-2016-4656 and CVE-2016-4657) and a loader that downloads and decrypts a package
for stage 3.
STAGE 3 Espionage software: This stage is downloaded by stage 2 and is also based on the device type (32-bit
vs 64-bit). Stage 3 contains the espionage software, daemons, and other processes that are used after the de
vice has been jailbroken in stage 2. Stage 3 installs the hooks into the applications the attacker wishes to spy on.
Additionally, stage 3 detects if the device was previously jailbroken through another method and, if so, removes
any access to the device that the jailbreak provides, such as via SSH. The software also contains a failsafe to remove
itself if certain conditions are present.
The third stage deploys a number of files deployed in a standard unix tarball (test222.tar), each of which has its own pur
pose (that we describe later in this report):


ca.crt - root TLS certificate that is added to keystore (see Appendix A)


ccom.apple.itunesstored.2.csstore - Standalone javascript that is run from the command line at reboot and is used to


run unsigned code and jailbreak the kernel on device reboot

converter - injects dylib in a process by pid. It is a renamed version of the cynject from the Cydia open-source

library


libaudio.dylib - The base library for call recording


libdata.dylib - A renamed version of the Cydia substrate open-source library


libimo.dylib - Generic chat sniffer library


libvbcalls.dylib - Viber sniffer


libwacalls.dylib - Whatsapp sniffer


lw-install - Spawns all sniffing services
systemd - Sends reports and files to server


watchdog


workerd - SIP module


The attack we investigated works on iOS up to 9.3.4. The developers maintain a large table in their code that attacks
all iOS versions from 7.0 up to and including iOS 9.3.3. While the code we investigated did not contain the appropriate
values to initially work on iOS 9.3.4, the exploits we investigated would still work, and it is trivial for the attackers to update
the table so that the attack will work on 9.3.4.
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS OF PEGASUS SPYWARE | 8
One other unique property of this attack is that standard jailbreak detections fail to report that the device has been ex
ploited. The attack and installation of the spying software is designed to be as silent as possible to the target.