BACKGROUND
Virtual Private Networks (VPN) are very popular. They are part and parcel for almost every enterprise network, especially those
with remote employees. Aside from VPNs for enterprises, there are many reputable commercial VPN services that offer low-cost,
reliable service to individual users. These users employ VPNs for reasons that might include connection security, protection of
private data, online gaming acceleration, and bypassing service provider restrictions. VPNs are also used by cyber criminals, as
it allows them to obscure their true source location. When a commercial VPN service provider uses resources such as servers
and copious bandwidth stolen or repurposed from unsuspecting victims for purposes of profit, analysis and reporting are in
order. In this report, RSA Research exposes one such operator doing business with multiple VPN brand names marketed
primarily in the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Operating with more than 1500 end nodes around the world, RSA Research
has confirmed that at least thirty of the host systems are compromised Windows servers that were “harvested” without the
victims’ knowledge or permission. The operators behind Terracotta VPN continue their broad campaign to compromise multiple
victim organizations around the world. RSA Research is reporting on the associated VPN operator because:


There is evidence of compromise of multiple victim organization systems around the world,


There is evidence of illicit installation of software and malicious remote access tools on the victims’ servers, and


There is evidence of theft of victims’ resources and bandwidth to serve clients (including advanced threat actors) with a
high-performance anonymity service.


NOTE: There are two classes of victims described and referred to in this report. Most of the references to victims are of those unknowingly enlisted into
the Terracotta VPN service, as outlined above. A second class of victims, APT targets, have been targeted by other actors who are using Terracotta for
anonymization and obfuscation. Throughout this report, we specificly refer to APT-victims accordingly, while leaving the generic ‘victim’ designation for
the Terracotta nodes.