INVESTIGATION TIMELINE REVIEW
[If you are familiar with previous publications and interested in Check Point’s new insights, you may skip this section.]
The Rocket Kitten campaign/actor group has been studied and analyzed on multiple occasions by different vendors, threat intelligence
groups and individual researchers. In a repeating challenge in the malware research domain, we have seen different reports introduce
a myriad of code names and operation names for what may very well be the same campaign/actors.
In contrast to malware naming schemes, all reports are in unanimous agreement with strong indications of the campaign’s Iranian
origin. This thesis is supported by the individuals and verticals targeted, as part of a plethora of circumstantial and direct evidence.
While we should keep in mind digital evidence can be forged and tailored to falsely masquerade as any attacker to deceive a forensic
analyst, the overwhelming amount of independent evidence collected over years of attack activity render the notion of a false campaign
extremely improbable.
Despite all the reporting and sharing of malicious indicators, Check Point has detected continued active attacks using the same
methods and infrastructure. These findings were confirmed by other security vendors, as well as Check Point’s research partners.
It seems as if the attackers, unsophisticated as they are, are completely undeterred by the western security industry’s revelations
and publications. Often with the simple replacement of a domain name and minor updates to their malware tools, they continue to
carry out their operation undisturbed.
Let us try to review and briefly summarize points of interest from the publications so far.
May Dec. June Sept.
2014 2014 2015 2015
iSIGHT Partners Tillmann Werner ClearSky
Operation Saffron
Rose [1]
May Sept. March Aug.
2014 2014 2015 2015
FireEye ClearSky Trend Micro, Inc.
1 https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/global/en/current-threats/pdfs/rpt-operation-saffron-rose.pdf
2 http://www.isightpartners.com/2014/05/newscaster-iranian-threat-inside-social-media/
3 http://www.clearskysec.com/gholee-a-protective-edge-themed-spear-phishing-campaign/
4 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WIhKovlHDJ0
5 https://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-content/us/pdfs/security-intelligence/white-papers/wp-operation-woolen-goldfish.pdf
6 http://www.clearskysec.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/Thamar-Reservoir-public1.pdf
7 https://citizenlab.org/2015/08/iran_two_factor_phishing/
8 http://documents.trendmicro.com/assets/wp/wp-the-spy-kittens-are-back.pdf
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  4
The May 2014 ‘Operation Saffron Rose’ publication identifies an Iranian hacking group formerly named ‘Ajax Security’ (code-named
‘Flying Kitten’ by CrowdStrike) engaged in active spear phishing attacks on Iranian dissidents (those attempting to circumvent
government traffic monitoring). This group is potentially linked to more recent Rocket Kitten attacks (different tools, yet very similar
mode of operation and phishing domain naming scheme). No concrete evidence of such link has been presented yet.
Newscaster by iSight Partners was released the same month, to detail similar efforts of persistent spear phishing backed by false
social media identities pertaining to be journalists of the fake news web site ‘newsonair.org.’ iSight, who reportedly cooperated
with the FBI, provides a clear Iranian attribution to these efforts. The report specifies the attackers targeted policymakers, senior
military personnel and defense industry organizations in the US, UK and Israel. We did not find direct evidence linking this activity
to Rocket Kitten.
ClearSky’s September 2014 blog post first described active attacks using a piece of malware they dubbed ‘ Gholee ’ (as appears in a
malicious payload export function, potentially named after a popular Iranian singer [9] ). The researcher points to initial leads into
other attacks and notes the threat is currently undetected by the overwhelming majority of AV products.
Image 1—the ‘gholee’ export name as noted by ClearSky.
Gadi & Tillman’s presentation at 31c3 (the 31st Chaos Communication Congress in Germany) was the first clear identification of the
Rocket Kitten attacker group, continuing the CrowdStrike naming scheme for Iranian attacker groups. The publication introduced
the involvement of hacker persona ‘ Wool3n.H4t ’ and other identities in forensic evidence obtained from the malicious documents.
Image 2—Forensic artifact in malicious document hinting to file creator as noted by Tillman Werner & Gadi Evron.
9 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yNFA8l0kIeQ
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  5
The researchers followed to describe two pieces of malware used by the attackers:


A deeper look into ClearSky’s ‘Gholee’ determined it is the ‘wrapper’ component of an off-the-shelf penetration testing tool
originally authored by Argentina-based Core Security. This legitimate PT tool, named ‘Core Impact,’ was illegally repurposed
and used for malicious attacks by the Rocket Kitten group.


A .NET-based credential stealer that pilfers known certain credential storage locations in the infected computer and e-mails
them to ‘wool3n.h4t@gmail.com’. This tool appears to be named ‘FireMalv’ by the attackers.


Trend Micro’s March 2015 publication reintroduces the ‘Gholee’ malware (as GHOLE) campaign, and describes ‘Operation Woolen
Goldfish,’ as well as an additional ‘CWoolger’—an unsophisticated key-logger apparently named ‘woolger’ (likely a Portmanteau for
‘wool3n keylogger ’) written in C++, and present evidence showing its existence starting 2011.
```
   C:\Users\Wool3n.H4t\Documents\Visual Studio 2010\Projects\C-CPP\CWoolger\Release\CWoolger.pdb
```
The researchers continue to point at the very likely attribution to the Wool3n.H4T identity as the malware author, whose only online
reference was found in an Iranian blogging platform.
Image 4—wool3nh4t.blog.ir as pointed to by Trend Micro researchers
In this publication, Trend Micro researchers document Rocket Kitten’s minor update to the Gholee malware (the ‘gholee’ function
was renamed to ‘function’), supposedly to avoid the Yara signature published by ClearSky and document the existence of Gholee
malware samples dating March 2011, as further evidence for historic attacker activity.
ClearSky continued their investigations into the group’s activities and in June 2015 published a paper dubbing the attack campaign
‘Thamar Reservoir’ named after Dr. Thamar E. Gindin, herself a Rocket Kitten target. ClearSky researchers notably mention
the breach of an Israeli academic institution to serve as a hosting service for the phishing web site, and follow to present an OPSEC
(operational security) failure by the attackers that allowed ClearSky to learn of a detailed (partial) target list.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  6
Morocco
1%
Jordan
1%
United Kingdom
3%
Iraq
3%
Syria
Image 5—Partial target country distribution as visible on the phishing server logs exposed by ClearSky
This list was analyzed to confirm a strong alignment with nation-state political interests, with specific victims known as adversarial
or of intelligence value to Iran. ClearSky also reference an inadvertent public confirmation for the Iranian attribution by the US
Department of Treasury in a memo which briefly appeared online, before being deleted.
ClearSky provided many examples of personalized phishing e-mails and communication, including phone calls to victims luring
them to open these attachments, demonstrating the group’s persistency and breadth of operations.
Image 6 – Custom- tailored phishing page as presented by ClearSky
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  7
The same phishing phone calling scheme was detailed in an August 2015 report by Citizen Lab, describing attempts to lure victims
to provide their two-factor authentication tokens. In these attempts, victims receive tailored calls from a person who has clearly
researched them, prompting them to take action on received e-mails. Among targeted victims Citizen Lab mention EFF’s Director for
International Freedom of Speech Jillian York. The Citizen Lab report describes overlapping phishing domains with ones previously
reported, confirming a link with Rocket Kitten.
Image 7—Google password reset phishing page as presented by Citizen Lab
Interestingly, a special update to the Citizen Lab publication was added to include a response from a news outlet reported to be in
close connection with Iranian intelligence, following allegations by exiled Iranian journalist Omid Memarian attributing these attacks
to Iranian Revolutionary Guards [10] with ‘no doubt.’ The response mocks the ‘Western Media fishing in muddy waters’ and describe the
allegations as ‘weird.’
The latest paper from Trend Micro and ClearSky (dated September 2015) goes a great length to detail the group’s profile and mode of
operations so far, and introduces a few more attack incidents, as well as a new ‘downloader’ piece of malware.
10 A branch of the Iranian armed forces, sworn to protect the country’s Islamic system and prevent ‘foreign interference’.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  8