Overview of Operation Earth Kitsune
During our day-to-day process of triaging indicators of compromise (IOCs), we noticed a suspicious
trigger coming from the Korean American National Coordinating Council (KANCC) website redirecting the
victim machine to the Hanseattle website. The redirection landed on a weaponized version of a proof of
concept exploit for CVE-2019-5782 published in the Google Chromium tracking system as issue 1755 [5]
(Figure 4 shows the actual redirection). Both of these websites are North Korea international organizations,
and hosted on the GNUBOARD CMS.
Figure 4. Redirection to CVE-2019-5782
Further investigation revealed that the attack was more complex than just a weaponized version of the
mentioned Chrome exploit. The exploit was infecting the victim machine with three separate malware
samples, as shown on the right side of Figure 5.
6 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
|Compromised websites|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
|||
IE Exploit Chrome exploit
(CVE-2020-0674) (CVE-2019-5782)
Shellcode
Dropper.dll connects
Identified C&C servers
hosting different samples
Samples dropped Samples dropped
C&C server
C&C server
C&C server
C&C server
C&C server
Notes:
“mm,” “dne,” and “agf” are the names the
attacker used for the captured samples
mm == Mattermost
Figure 5. The attack vectors used in the campaign
We also found another exploit abusing CVE-2020-0674, an Internet Explorer vulnerability injected
into compromised websites. In particular, it runs a PowerShell loader that will infect victims with three
different binaries. Comparing the PowerShell script samples with the ones deployed through the Chrome
exploit show that, while they are separate binaries, they are actually the same malware variant. The
PowerShell script is responsible for dropping SLUB, dneSpy, and agfSpy when the attack vector is IE;
7 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations
when the Chrome exploit is used as the attack vector, the exploit shellcode is responsible for dropping
the mentioned malware, as showed in Figure 5. This PowerShell script has a “jpg” extension and its logic
is encoded in base64, as shown in Figure 6.
Figure 6. The PowerShell script responsible for delivering samples
Figure 5 shows a three-letter name associated with the samples “mm,” “dne,” and “agf,” which are
acronyms that the attacker gave to the different samples. The “mm” sample is a new version of SLUB that
uses MatterMost instead of Slack. We were able to assign those acronyms to all the samples by following
the PowerShell code logic and correlating the samples delivered by the Chrome exploit. The only acronym
we can guess the meaning of is the “mm,” which we assume comes from Mattermost (which is used as a
C&C server). Note that the samples delivered by the PowerShell script and those delivered by the Chrome
exploit communicate with the same C&C server.
The following sections will describe the attack vectors shown in Figure 5.
8 | Operation Earth Kitsune: Tracking SLUB’s Current Operations