Summary of the Incident
The HSE’s Incident Response provider’s
investigation [83] determined the ransomware attack
originated from a malware infection on a workstation
(“patient zero”) on 18 March 2021. Patient zero was
infected with malware after the workstation’s user
interacted with a malicious Microsoft Office Excel
document that was attached to a phishing email
received on 16 March 2021.
The user of patient zero was targeted with phishing
emails with the same email subject on four other
occasions between 14 December 2020 and 9
February 2021, but the workstation was not
successfully infected with malware. The HSE’s
Incident Response provider attributed the phishing
emails sent to patient zero to an Attacker [84] they refer
to as UNC2633. [85] The investigation also identified
additional workstations that were infected with
malware (as a result of phishing emails sent by
the Attacker UNC2633), with the earliest identified
infection occurring on 24 November 2020. However,
there is no evidence to indicate these infections
contributed to the ransomware incident.
After this Attacker gained unauthorised access to the
HSE’s IT environment on 18 March 2021, a second
Attacker continued to operate in the environment
until the execution of ransomware on 14 May 2021.
The HSE’s Incident Response provider identified
that the Attacker compromised 180 systems and
at least highly privileged accounts (typically
required for performing administrative tasks (‘highly
privileged accounts’)) across eight organisations and
19 domains. The Incident Response provider also
identified over 2,800 servers and 3,500 workstations
across 15 domains, with evidence of encryption.
This likely represents a lower bound on the number
of systems encrypted, as some systems were
restored from backups or rebuilt prior to endpoint
agent deployment, reducing the Incident Response
provider’s ability to determine if encryption had
occurred.
The HSE’s Incident Response provider attributed
the second Attacker to be one that they refer to as
UNC2727. [86] When investigating human-operated [87]
ransomware attacks it is common to identify evidence
of two Attackers, one that specialises in gaining
access to organisations, and another that specialises
in deploying ransomware and extortion. For the
purpose of clarity, unless otherwise stated when this
report refers to ‘the Attacker’, these references will
be to the activity attributed to the second Attacker
83 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
84 An individual or a group posing a threat.
85 This is a threat actor that sends phishing emails containing malicious attachments or links to gain access to organisations’
networks
86 This is a financially motivated group that the HSE’s Incident Response provider has tracked since April 2021. This group is known
to deploy Conti ransomware and / or exfiltrates victim data in support of their extortion efforts.
87 Human-operated ransomware attacks are different to traditional ransomware attacks in that they are ‘hands-on-keyboard’ attacks.
This involves human attackers using knowledge of offensive techniques and weaknesses in enterprise IT systems, to methodically
compromise organisations’ networks, compromise systems, overcome defence and cause maximum impact. The ransomware
attack that impacted HSE is an example of a human-operated ransomware attack. For further details see: https://www.pwc.com/
jg/en/publications/responding-to-growing-human-operated-ransomware-attacks-threat.pdf
45 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
that the HSE’s Incident Response provider refer to as
UNC2727.
The cyber attack was identified when the execution
of ransomware on 14 May 2021 caused widespread
IT disruption. Prior to this, none of the unauthorised
access, which began as early as 14 December
2020, was actively identified or contained within the
HSE environment. There were several detections of
malicious activity, but these did not result in a cyber
security incident or investigation being initiated.
It was reported by the HSE’s management that 80%
of the IT environment across corporate IT services,
hospitals, CHOs and EHRs was encrypted, [88] severely
disrupting healthcare services. The HSE’s Incident
Response provider identified encrypted files on 15
AD domains across the HSE, Hospital C, Hospital K,
Hospital D, Hospital L, Hospital J and Hospital B. [89]
The HSE’s Incident Response provider’s investigation
identified information exposure events relating to
email, AD data and file data across the HSE, Hospital
A, Hospital B, Hospital C and Hospital D. [90]
Our review noted that the impact of the ransomware
attack could have been more severe, for example:
• if there had been intent by the Attacker to target
specific devices within the HSE environment (e.g.
medical devices);
• if the ransomware took actions to destroy data at
scale;
• if the ransomware had auto-propagation and
persistence capabilities, for example by using
an exploit to propagate across domains and
trust-boundaries to medical devices (e.g. the
EternalBlue exploit used by WannaCry and
NotPetya [91] );
• if cloud systems had also been encrypted such as
the COVID-19 vaccination system. [92]
Our review also noted that the timeframe for
recovery could have been significantly longer had the
decryption key not been sourced, as the HSE would
have had to rely on recovering applications and
systems from backups at scale.
For more detail on the technical timeline, see
Appendix E.
Figure 10: Focus area 1 summary of key findings and recommendations
Preparation for a ransomware cyber attack 13
Response to the Incident 14
11 4
Impact & recovery from the Incident 12
Sustainable reduction of risk since the Incident 10
Total no. of key findings & recommendations 49 11 4
Note: Recommendations are categorised as immediate (starting immediately and completed within six months)
and medium-term (with a phased plan for implementation to be developed and completed within 18 months).
88 Percentage confirmed in interview by the CTO within OoCIO Infrastructure and Technology
89 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
90 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
91 https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/TA17-181A
92 The COVID-19 vaccination system was designed to be cloud hosted and separate from the HSE IT environment to increase
security.
46 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.