Cyber Espionage Activity
Observed APT41 targeting is consistent with China's
national strategies to move production capabilities
upmarket into research and development (R&D)-heavy
fields. These initiatives were especially highlighted with
"Made in China 2025," a plan announced in 2015 that aims
to shift China's economy toward higher value products
and services, including pharmaceuticals, semiconductors,
and other high-tech industries.

We assess that the targeting of high-tech firms that

produce computer components aligns with Chinese
interests in domestically developing high-end
technologies as outlined in the 12th (2011) and 13th
(2016) Five-Year plans, as well as the Made in China
2025 (2015) initiative.
–
Since 2013, APT41 has targeted organizations involved
in the research, development, and sale of computer
components used for machine-learning, autonomous
vehicles, medical imaging, and the consumer market.
The group also targeted companies involved in
producing motherboards, processors, and server
solutions for enterprises.
–
In April 2013, the group targeted an enterprise
cloud-computing provider. Developing domestic
cloud-computing technologies was a goal in the 12th
Five-Year Plan.
–
In a 2014 compromise, APT41 targeted a European
conglomerate and specifically focused on systems
physically located in China.

The timing of multiple intrusions attributed to the group

indicate a focused interest in strategic business decisions,
including entry into the Chinese market, partnerships/
M&A, and expansion into other regional markets.
–
In October 2017, an intrusion into a retailer targeted
strategic investment plans at the same time as the
firm was beginning to negotiate a partnership with a
Chinese company (although this potential deal was
not publicized).
–
In spring 2015, APT41 targeted information related
to two entities undergoing a merger announced the
previous year. This included data related to a senior
executive, as well as payroll and communications
integration issues.

Since 2017, APT41 has consistently targeted

telecommunications companies, possibly a crucial first
step to establish a foothold in targeting a particular region.
–
Targeted telecom companies spanned several
countries, and recently identified intrusions were
concentrated in countries where we had not identified
any prior APT41 activity.
–
APT41 has targeted large telecom companies and
their subsidiaries in various locations, demonstrating
consistent interest in obtaining access to these
targets.
–
The group has also repeatedly targeted call record
information at telecom companies, supporting
indications of their wider intelligence collection efforts.
In addition to specifically targeting industries of
strategic value, we suggest that APT41 is also given
more tactical assignments, including reconnaissance and
identifying dissidents.

A hotel was targeted two weeks ahead of a diplomatic

visit in which high-ranking Chinese officials stayed
there. Personal data within the reservations system was
directly accessed, suggesting the group was potentially
tasked to reconnoiter the facility.

We assess with moderate confidence that APT41

gathered intelligence on pro-democracy dissidents
in Hong Kong based on the targets and timing of
operations.
–
In July and August 2016, APT41 sent spear-phishing
emails to Hong Kong media organizations known for
pro-democracy editorial content.
–
The timing and targeting of this activity suggests
possible interest in the pro-democracy Umbrella
Movement candidates who were running for seats in
Hong Kong's legislative council.
–
A spear-phishing email with the subject-line "help"
was later sent to one of the previously targeted
organizations in October 2017, coinciding with the
sentencing of pro-democracy Occupy activists. The
ruling placed a five-year ban on the activists from
holding public offices in Hong Kong.
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 11
– This was the first instance we have observed of APT41
targeting pro-democracy groups in Hong Kong.
APT41 frequently leverages timely news stories as the
lure content in their spear-phishing emails, although
social engineering content does not always correlate with
targeted users or organizations.
Figure 3:

In 2015, APT41 targeted a Japanese media organization

with a lure document (Figure 3) titled “中東呼吸器症候
群(MERS)の予防,” which translates to "Prevention of
Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)." The fear of
respiratory infections and a potential pandemic provide
particularly effective lure material against targets in the
Asia-Pacific region that had first-hand experience with
prior SARS and avian flu outbreaks.
MERS-themed lure document leveraging for C&C (MD5: 5e87b09f9a3f1b728c9797560a38764b).
12 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION
CASE STUDY