4.2 Prioritizing disruption
To determine if disruption is the appropriate and
optimal action, the threat should be evaluated
to determine whether disabling the technical
infrastructure will mitigate or eliminate the threat.
But the determination is not either/or. In operations
coordinated by public- and private-sector actors,
a combination of traditional and disruptive
approaches may work best. Working with the
disruptive model along with traditional techniques
will increase the costs for cybercriminals and their
risk of arrest. But this combination requires the
parties involved to be pragmatic, and carefully and
flexibly synchronizing the action to be taken.
Managing and coordinating joint action raises
certain challenges and risks. To ensure successful
operational cooperation, especially when the aim is
disruptive action, decision-makers should take into
account three key considerations:
Operational objectives
At the operation’s outset, who should participate
must be considered first, including certain
participants but possibly excluding others. Several
factors will make a difference in the decision:
for example, where the criminal actor(s) and
infrastructures are located, which law enforcement
agencies are already investigating, what privatesector companies (that are tracking the threat or
whose services are being used by the criminal)
have a stake in the case, and where the victims are
located. Taking into account geopolitical factors that
may influence the viability and eventual success of
the operation is also important.
After participants are identified, they should
determine the disruptive operation’s goal. The
participants in this type of operation will play different
roles and may have different goals and measures
of success. Timely disruptions are important to
protect victims, and proper coordination can help
to preserve all or most of the evidence needed
for prosecution. The diverse objectives can be
reconciled, but the stakeholders must identify and
share their goals. They should recognize that their
individual goals may not be fully achievable but
should be willing to negotiate their role to support
the disruption of the criminal’s infrastructure.
Once it is assembled and its goals are set, the team
will need to sufficiently comprehend the criminal
scheme and its infrastructure to be effective.
To design an effective disruption operation, the
decision-makers should be aware that the criminal
investigation will not be the same as a traditional one.
Traditional investigations are often narrowly restricted
to attribution of responsibility and location of the
underlying criminal actor. The underlying criminal
infrastructure, however, is not necessarily tied solely
to a single criminal actor or enterprise. Therefore,
consideration should be given to the operation’s
appropriate scope, to achieve the biggest impact.
Legal and policy factors
To effectively disrupt criminal infrastructure, the
jurisdiction(s) where the infrastructure is located
should be identified. The legal authority for a publicor private-sector entity to act in that jurisdiction then
needs to be clearly established. In some cases, a
public- or private-sector partner will inherently possess
the authority needed to act, although all actions
should be performed in compliance with human rights
considerations and due process safeguards. In other
cases, public- or private-sector actors will need to use
the authority of the courts. In cases where a criminal’s
infrastructure is located in a jurisdiction that does not
allow coordinated action, the team may be able to
identify another jurisdiction that could provide the legal
authority to execute the disruption in a different way.
For example, if directly confiscating the infrastructure
is not possible, seizing websites could be an effective
alternative when the domain registrar is located within
the legal authority jurisdiction.
In addition to identifying the appropriate legal
authority, it is important to consider whether the
disruption could interfere with recognized rights to
privacy or privacy regulations. During the operation,
all information sharing should occur in accordance
with applicable national privacy laws and
agreements. All information should be secure, have
limited access and include documented procedures
for sharing. Therefore, relying upon existing sharing
centres and protocols may make sharing more
efficient. Transparency regarding the operation, the
legal authorities involved and the results is essential,
but naming all participants may not be practical or
Partnership against Cybercrime 19
Sources: Verbatim
description taken from
US Cyberspace Solarium
Commission, Cyberspace
Solarium Commission
report, March 2020, p. 87,
https://www.solarium.gov/
report; US Department of
Justice, “Two International
Cybercriminal Rings
Dismantled and Eight
Defendants Indicted for
Causing Tens of Millions
of Dollars in Losses in
Digital Advertising Fraud”,
Press Release, United
States Attorney’s Office,
Eastern District of New
York, 27 November 2018,
https://www.justice.
  -      gov/usao [edny/pr/two](https://www.justice.gov/usao-edny/pr/two-international-cybercriminal-rings-dismantled-and-eight-defendants-indicted-causing)

international-cybercriminal-
rings-dismantled-and-eight-
defendants-indicted-causing
(both accessed 31 October
2020).