~~Introduction~~
TOM BURT, CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT, CUSTOMER SECURITY & TRUST
Over the past year the world has borne witness to a burgeoning cybercrime economy and the rapid rise
of cybercrime services. We have watched this global market grow in both complexity and fervency. We’ve
seen the cyberattack landscape becoming increasingly sophisticated as cybercriminals continue—and even
escalate—their activity in times of crisis. New levels of supply chain and ransomware attacks were a powerful
reminder that we must all work together, and in new ways, to protect the cybersecurity of the planet.
We see transparency and information sharing
as essential to the protection of the ecosystem.
Knowledge brings power, and to that end, security
professionals need diverse and timely insights into
the threats they are defending against.
Microsoft serves billions of customers globally,
allowing us to aggregate security data from a broad
and diverse spectrum of companies, organizations,
and consumers. Informed by over 24 trillion
security signals per day, our unique position helps
us generate a high-fidelity picture of the current
state of cybersecurity, including indicators that help
us predict what attackers will do next. Our goal in
creating the Microsoft Digital Defense Report is to
bring together integrated data and insights from
more teams, across more areas of Microsoft than
ever before. We will share what we’re seeing to help
the global community strengthen the defense of the
digital ecosystem, and we will include actionable
learnings that companies, governments, and
consumers can use to further secure individuals and
environments.
The Microsoft Digital Defense Report draws on
insights, data, and signals from across Microsoft,
including the cloud, endpoints, and the intelligent
edge. [ Note 1 ] Thousands of Microsoft security experts
across 77 countries interpret and contribute to the
insights gained from our advanced engineering
and threat signals. Our security experts include
analysts, researchers, responders, engineers, and
data scientists. We also share lessons learned from
customers transitioning to a hybrid workforce and
frontline stories from our incident responders. Of
course, there is malign activity we do not see, some
of which is reported on by others in the industry.
While the defender community at Microsoft works
hard to identify threats and keep our customers
informed, the bad actors are skilled and relentless.
By continually sharing insights we and others in the
industry derive from the work we do, we hope to
empower everyone to defend the online ecosystem
more effectively.
Microsoft has made significant and ongoing
investments to increase and improve the knowledge
we derive from our threat signals. These investments
deliver the highly synthesized and integrated
insights that we share here. Our goal in aggregating
these learnings is to help organizations understand
the ways in which cybercriminals are continually
shifting their modes of attack—and determine the
best ways to combat those attacks. We write and
share this report in the spirit of empowering the
global community to benefit from the insights,
observations, and transparency generated by our
unique mission and vantage point.
Note 1 These signals are collected with customer privacy in mind. The data we collect depends on the context of your interactions with Microsoft and the choices you make, including your privacy settings and the products and features you use.
TOC INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Our 2021 focus areas
Microsoft security signals
Volume and diversity of signals processed by Microsoft
TOC INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Our 2021 focus areas