Area 6: Human factors and cultural contributors
FA2.KF10 Emergency response was ingrained in
the HSE’s core operations; HSE staff had a natural
ability to respond to emergencies, despite a lack
of organisational preparedness
At the time of the cyber attack the HSE was over
a year into a multifaceted and prolonged crisis
response to the COVID-19 pandemic. All workshop
participants stated that staff from all levels across
the HSE, impacted hospitals, CHOs and third parties
went above and beyond to support the cyber attack
response effort. [228,229,230,231]
In times of significant challenge or emergencies staff
across the health service are able to demonstrate
resilience, and exhibit efficient and quick decision
making grounded in organisational values (e.g.
prioritisation of patient service and care). A prevalent
theme in interviews is that the staff are ‘perpetually
responding to emergencies’ [232, 233, 234], and are
therefore naturally skilled at it.
However, the significant majority of individuals
interviewed also clearly stated that the HSE was not
prepared to manage an event of this magnitude and
scale. [235] Clinical and services continuity and crisis
preparedness, as opposed to emergency response,
was not evidenced as a corporate priority in the
HSE. Interviewees commonly commented that a
reactive posture to crisis had largely been normalised
and accepted day-to-day practice. [236] The apparent
normalisation of crises had led to a predominantly
reactive posture towards crisis response, a
confidence in the HSE’s crisis management capability,
and a reduced perceived need for significant advance
preparation for wider incidents, organisational crisis
or ‘black swan’ events.
The leadership style and decision-making process
required during a crisis is necessarily different than
that required during business as usual, even within
high tempo, safety critical operations such as health
care. Crises are associated with heightened stress
that impacts on the decision-making process, which
is made more complex by the constraints of time,
the volume of decisions to be made and the scarcity
of available information. For example, decisions
had to be made in the response to the Conti attack
where supporting data was not available and where
IT and clinical priorities were not understood or
aligned (e.g. the decision to disconnect appliances
from the network, made in the absence of a clinical
and services impact analysis outlining the critical
systems, the impacts to be caused, and service level
agreements for recovery).
The consequence of being in perpetual ‘crisis
response’ mode can also create wellbeing impacts on
staff members, as illustrated in this case by the level
of stress and fatigue experienced by staff members
dealing with both the COVID-19 and concurrent cyber
attack crises. [237] Chronic stress without recovery,
depletes energy reserves, leads to burnout and
ultimately compromises the crisis response capability.
This can subsequently compound the inability to act
and lead clearly, and therefore has the potential to
further increase the risk of patient safety incidents
and clinical errors as well as further risk of harm
to staff. Staff who had been deployed during the
COVID-19 pandemic reported returning to their roles
feeling fatigued before the ransomware attack; the
concurrent crises were unlike anything they had ever
encountered and the response was heavily fuelled by
staff members’ ‘can-do attitude’. [238]
FA2.KR10 Instil a culture of preparedness in the
HSE to reduce the negative impacts of disruption
on its people (see strategic recommendation 4.2
in section 4)
The HSE should aim to create a culture that values
and emphasises crisis preparedness as well as
having confidence in natural ability to respond to
major emergencies. In addition to scenario-specific
plans to prepare for crisis scenarios (beyond the
current scope of floods, adverse weather and aviation
disasters) recommended below (see also findings
FA2.KF8 and FA2.KF21), the HSE should implement
a comprehensive training and exercising programme
to familiarise all crisis responders at operational (e.g.
hospital/CHO, business support services, IT Security,
228 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
229 Site Workshop 5 (Hospital F)
230 Site Workshop 6 (Hospital C)
231 Site Workshop 1 (CHO B)
232 Site Workshop 2 (CHO A)
233 Site Workshop 4 (Hospital E)
234 Site Workshop 6 (Hospital C)
235 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
236 Communications & Stakeholder Management Workshop
237 Programme RAID Log
238 Healy, O. Dr. A mixed methods analysis of the effectiveness of the patient safety risk mitigation strategies following a Healthcare IT
failure, Dated 30th September 2021.
76 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
etc.), tactical (e.g. HSE, regional/area CMTs), and
strategic (e.g. HSE NCMT) levels with their roles
and responsibilities for crisis preparedness and
response, as well as the unique key considerations
and decisions required in various crisis scenarios
(see also finding FA2.KF8). Conducting scenariobased desktop and simulation exercises will expose
individuals to the (simulated) pressures they will
experience, thereby reducing the negative impact
imposed by external stressors and uncertainty in
real life events. Transferring the skills gained in
psychologically realistic exercises will facilitate more
effective teamwork and decision making in actual
crisis situations when they occur.