Conclusions
Every APT attack we analyze brings with it some new knowledge about the nature of cyberespionage. The
attackers are hackers first and foremost and, as proficient hackers, they invent novel ways to get into a
network, do lateral movement, leave nearly no traces, all while exfiltrating valuable data.
ProjectSauron is a very advanced actor, comparable only to the top-of-the-top in terms of sophistication:
alongside Duqu, Flame, Equation, and Regin. Whether related or unrelated to these advanced actors, the
ProjectSauron attackers have definitely learned from these others.
As a reminder, here are some features of other APT attackers that ProjectSauron attackers had carefully
learned from or emulated:
Duqu:


Use of intranet C2s (that compromised target servers may act as independent C2s)


Running only in memory (persistence on a few gateway hosts only)


Use of different encryption methods per victim


Use of named pipes for LAN communication


Malware distribution through legitimate software deployment channels


Flame:


LUA-embedded code


Secure file deletion (through data wiping)


Attacking air-gapped systems via removable devices


Equation and Regin:


Usage of RC5/RC6 encryption


Virtual Filesystems (VFS)


Attacking air-gapped systems via removable devices


Hidden data storage on removable devices


These other actors also showed what makes them vulnerable to potential exposure and ProjectSauron did
its best to address these issues:


Vulnerable or persistent C2 locations


ISP, IP, domains, and tool reuse across different campaigns


Crypto-algorithms reuse (as well as encryption keys)


Forensic evidence on disk


Timestamps in various components


Large volumes of network data or unusual protocols or message formats


In addition, it appears that the attackers took special care with what we consider as indicators of compromise
and implemented a unique pattern for each and every target they attacked, so that the same indicators
For any inquiries, contact intelreports@kaspersky.com Page 21 of 22
The ProjectSauron APT
would have little value for anyone else. This is a summary of the ProjectSauron strategy as we see it. The
attackers clearly understand that we as researchers are always looking for patterns. Remove the patterns
and the operation will be harder to discover. We are aware of more than 30 organisations attacked but we
are sure that this is just a tiny tip of the iceberg.
A common organisation hit by a serious actor such as ProjectSauron can hardly cope with proper detection
and mitigation of such a threat on its own. As attackers become seasoned and more mature, the defending
side will have to build an identical mindset: developing the highest technical skills comparable to those of the
attackers in order to resist their onslaught.
For any inquiries, contact intelreports@kaspersky.com Page 22 of 22