Composition of the Tuyul Botnet
The infected server connects to the attacker’s IRC server and joins the
configured channel. In the first versions of the malware the channel used was
called “#idiot,” revealing the actor’s feelings toward the victims.
Each bot connecting to the server is given a nickname with a “TuYuL” prefix and a
random string.
Figure 16. Tuyul botnet showing 179 bots connected
For obvious reasons, the script permits only certain nicknames to operate the
bot. In early versions, four different nicknames were defined as admins. This
indicates that the campaign might be a joint effort and not the work of a single
individual. In later versions of the code, the number of admins was reduced to
two.
Figure 17. Early version configuration of Tuyul botnet
Since we had the source code and could see which admins that bot listens to, we
wanted to see if it was possible to take over the botnet. First, we tried to activate
a bot in a private chat with a non-admin nickname:
https://www.f5.com/labs/articles/threat-intelligence/new-perl-botnet--tuyul--found-with-possible-indonesian-attributi 7/14
2/1/2021 New Perl Botnet (Tuyul) Found with Possible Indonesian Attribution
Figure 18. Users attempting to execute a shell command using a non-admin
nickname
But when changing the nickname to one of the admins who was unsigned to the
server, we could execute commands on the infected bots, as shown in Figure 19.
Figure 19. Users attempting to execute a shell command using an admin
nickname
After a few days of monitoring the channel, the bot master noticed our activity
and registered the nicknames of the admins and white-listed the IRC clients
allowed to join the network. This prevented us from pretending to be admins and
controlling the bots.
During our research, the botnet peaked at around 350 bots, which is a relatively
small size botnet. For example, last year a different IRC botnet was reported with
7
more than 1,400 bots ~~.~~ Most of the victims are hosted on cloud services such as
Amazon Web Services (AWS) and DigitalOcean, and about a third are hosted on
Linode. When we conducted a geolocation of the IP addresses on the botnet, we
found that U.S. and U.K. servers accounted for almost half of the bots.