U sing the hashes of the malware used in the November 2014 SPE attack, Novetta was able
to identify more than 45 malware families due to
shared code, encryption keys, and other features
across a diverse set of tools. This set of malware has
been attributed to a threat actor we have dubbed
the Lazarus Group. The Lazarus Group’s malware
variants have been under active development since
at least 2009 and can be tied to publicly related
attacks as early as 2007.
Despite the fact that many of the malware variants
are not as sophisticated as many tools attributed
to other APT groups, the corpus of malware used
by the Lazarus Group is extremely effective and,
in multiple cases, responsible for targeted cyber
espionage, data theft, and destructive attacks.
Notably, as the attack against SPE and other targets
have shown, efficient, long-term, and destructive
cyber attacks can be orchestrated and executed by
this group.
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the Sony Attack 48
In Operation Blockbuster, Novetta and industry partners have begun working together to understand and devise ways to
degrade the Lazarus Group’s malware toolset, eroding the group’s ability to use these tools for further harm.
While no effort can completely halt malicious operations, Novetta believes that these efforts can help cause significant
disruption and raise operating costs for adversaries, in addition to profiling groups that have relied on secrecy for much of
their success.
It is our hope that private industry will not only continue to illuminate various threat actors’ toolsets and operations, but
also work with other industry partners and law enforcement agencies as able to affect positive change on the safety of
network environments worldwide.
5.1 Remediation Suggestions
Given the nature of the Lazarus Groups tool set and its well-resourced operations, this section of the report is not
intended to provide in-depth remediation suggestions for every possible scenario and environment. Rather, we highlight
general methods that can be of use to organizations who are concerned about mitigating these types of general threats.
For organizations who feel like their own internal cyber security capabilities are immature or non-existent, Mitre has
released a high quality book on this topic [60] for public consumption.
With the help of operation partners, Novetta has pushed AV, IDS and YARA signatures to identify associated Lazarus
Group tools and traffic. In addition to checking against these signatures, an up-to-date antivirus tool reporting to a central,
monitored location is highly recommended. Other freely available tools, such as Microsoft’s EMET, [] are also valuable
defensive measures in conjunction with following suggestions for securing endpoints, servers, and network infrastructure.
On top of the provided signature-based detections, scrutinizing network traffic, and storing raw network traffic (i.e., pcap)
for as long as is economically feasible can function as a tremendous aid in the investigation of alerts or identification of
anomalous or malicious traffic. When considering the SPE attack, there is clear evidence to suggest that the attackers had
access to corporate networks and were exfiltrating data long before the destructive malware was downloaded and executed.
Network segregation, i.e., preventing workstations from talking to each other, could also help mitigate attacks; malware
used by the Lazarus Group takes advantage of such configurations between machines for lateral movement to spread within
the network, deploying malware that spreads via P2P or via SMB [] bruteforcing using built-in Windows shares. Similarly,
remote access to machines should be restricted and only allowed on a case-by-case basis where needed. Administrator-level
permissions should also be restricted, as attackers with an initial foothold into a system can use or elevate to administrator
privileges to gain access to entire networks. Wherever possible, two-factor authentication is strongly recommended as well as
proper ageing of account passwords and strong password complexity requirements and associated testing.
Like many other attackers, the Lazarus Group appears to rely on social engineering as an initial attack vector. Educating
employees as to the dangers of spear phishing both in email as well as a its use in a social media context is crucially
important, as an attacker can easily gain access to sensitive information that can be used to social engineer remote access
60 “Ten Strategies of a World-Class Cybersecurity Operations Center.” MITRE. 2014. https://www.mitre.org/sites/default/files/publications/pr-13-1028-mitre-10-strategies-cyber-ops-center.pdf
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the Sony Attack 49
or in the worst case gain direct remote access to a target network. One way to attempt to minimize these types of attacks
is to ensure that end users are applying software updates and patches to their home machines prior to connecting via
VPN, as well as mount internal awareness campaigns that promote patching as well as suspicion of links and files sent via
social media.
In addition to the above steps, regular backups of servers are recommended including continual testing and verification of
your backup process and DRP plans can aid in recovery from failures or DDoS attacks. Furthermore, as the Lazarus Group
does not solely concentrate on destructive attacks, but also cyber espionage and data theft, encryption of sensitive data,
including emails, is highly recommended.
It is worth noting that automated solutions, tools, and other procedures outlined above and elsewhere are no substitute
for having a well-funded and dedicated security team. As breaches have become the new normal, with increasing fallout, a
thorough security policy and empowered team is necessary.
For more information, including guidelines for restoration of targeted systems, see the National Security Agency report
“Defensive Best Practices for Destructive Malware” [61] and US-CERT’s “Handling Destructive Malware.” [62]
5.2 Additional Resources and Reporting
Novetta has released additional technical reports detailing the capabilities of identified Lazarus Group malware, detailing
the RATs and attack staging and content distribution tools, the data exfiltration tools,the destructive malware “wipers”
and DDoS bots, other identified network tools, and the installers, uninstallers, loaders.
YARA Rules
www.operationblockbuster.com/YaraSigs.zip
Hashes
www.operationblockbuster.com/family_hashes.csv.zip
61 “Defensive Best Practices for Destructive Malware.” National Security Agency/Central Security Service. January 16, 2015. https://www.nsa.gov/ia/_files/factsheets/Defending_Against_Destructive_Malware.pdf
62 “Handling Destructive Malware.” US-CERT. November 4, 2013. https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/tips/ST13-003
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the Sony Attack 50