Discovery and history
A low-level botnet quickly evolves
We first noticed the beginnings of what would later become
3ve while our two companies were assessing the impact
of the Methbot operation, a similar underground ad fraud
enterprise that White Ops revealed in 2016. At this early
stage of 3ve’s growth, it appeared to be a low-volume
bot operation conducting ad fraud through residential
computers infected with an unknown malware. Far from
being groundbreaking, it looked like a run-of-the-mill
malicious bot with minimal impact on the industry at large.
We estimate that 3ve generated between
3 billion and 12 billion or more daily ad bid
requests at its peak.
But 3ve’s activity grew in 2017, with its operation eventually
generating billions of daily ad bid requests. That spike in
activity prompted our two companies to begin collaborating
in investigating the malware being used by this newly
prominent fraud enterprise. We estimate that 3ve generated
between 3 billion and 12 billion or more daily ad bid requests
at its peak.
The lower bound (3 billion) is a conservative estimate based
on how many ad bid requests a single buying platform may
have received. This approach may underestimate the total
volume of ad bid requests generated by 3ve, because each
individual buying platform may not have received all ad
bid requests (e.g. one DSP may not have had a business
relationship with all available supply partners or a DSP
may only have received portions of available inventory
from some supply partners). When measuring 3ve’s ad
bid volume across the supply chain (and not only within
a single buying platform) we estimate that the ad bid
volume exceeded 12 billion daily ad bid requests. It should
be noted that our analysis of ad bid requests indicated
growth in activity, but not necessarily growth in transactions
that would result in charges to advertisers. It is also worth
noting that 3-12 billion is a small percentage of overall bid
request volume across the industry
Our knowledge and collaboration expanded
Although we were able to identify the traffic from the
operation, our visibility into its full capabilities was limited
until we discovered malware samples that matched what
we’d seen from 3ve’s bots. This led us to two malware
families: Boaxxe/Miuref and Kovter.
We started referring to the bot operation as
3ve because our analysis suggested that it
was composed of three distinct sub-operations,
all of which shared certain similarities, but
which were specifically designed to commit
different kinds of ad fraud.
We gathered malware samples from fellow fraud
researchers at Proofpoint and Malwarebytes, but each
time we tried to run them on our own computers, they
wouldn’t work. After some deep collaboration with
ProofPoint and Malwarebytes, we discovered that this
was because the malware was using anti-forensics, an
evasion tactic in which malware scans a computer’s
processes, hardware, username, and IP address for any
security software that might detect it before running on
that computer. The malware was also only receiving and
executing ad fraud instructions on computers with certain
ISPs and in specific geographical locations. Subsequently,
we were able to observe and gradually understand 3ve’s
inner workings. That process progressively revealed the
presence of more malware and botnet families being
used by 3ve.
We started referring to the bot operation as 3ve because our
analysis suggested that it was composed of three distinct
sub-operations, all of which shared certain similarities,
but were specifically designed to commit different kinds
of ad fraud. We observed the network using tactics like
The Hunt for 3ve 7
tag manipulation and suppression to cover its tracks, and
noticed that it had started to quickly change its codebase
after each spike in its activity.
We had to ensure that the operators thought
they were going unnoticed in order to
observe them and apply our learnings to
future security efforts.
The actors responsible for the three sub-operations of
3ve demonstrated a high level of sophistication, creativity,
and agility. In response, we needed to figure out a way to
permanently disable it or shut it down.
One way to bring down bot operations is to blacklist all
of their known IP addresses. However, because of the
operation’s aggressiveness, as well as its ability to rapidly