How Malvertisers Get $$ to Bid on RTB
Invincea has shown logs from a winning malvertising bid in the price range of 65 cents per impression.
That is one ad, on one page, paid for by the malvertiser’s account. This implies that malvertisers have
deep pockets, spending hundreds of dollars on ad impressions. So how do they get money to spend on
these malicious campaigns?
Invincea recently saw a malvertiser win a bid and delivered a Java exploit. This exploit copied a fully
functional version of Chrome into the Java cache directory, and that version of Chrome launched in the
background and proceeded to visit websites and click on specific ad banners. It is presumed that these
ad banners paid revenue via referral bonuses to the malvertiser. By paying 65 cents to install a
background web browser that does nothing but click fraud, the malvertiser is able to reap hundreds if not
thousands of dollars in advertising referral income. It is a pretty good return on investment, which in turn
allows the malvertiser to fund his micro-targeted malvertising attack campaign.
It is ironic, however, that click fraud is what is driving the prices of RTB advertising so high. Malvertising
is not only a danger to end users, but it is a danger to the advertising industry as well. The image from
Figure 14 below shows a log file of Chrome, in this instance, renamed Oajvliewxpge.exe, injected via Java
to run in the background. Invincea detected this attack and killed the infection attempt. This is one
instance where the malvertiser wasted his 65 cents.
Invincea, Inc. Release Date: 10.27.2014
Invincea White Paper 22
Figure 16: Event tree of click fraud malvertising exploit
It should be noted that Invincea is uniquely capable of stopping this type of attack. The introduction of
Chrome as a browser, which is whitelisted by hash across the AV industry, would go unchecked by the AV
and whitelisting applications industry. In this instance, the host was almost converted to a click-fraud bot.
But the malware delivery could have been intended for data exfiltration, banking Trojans, or any other
more insidious purpose.