APT-C-43 steals Venezuelan military secrets to provide intelligence support for the reactionaries — HpReact campaign
blog.360totalsecurity.com /en/apt-c-43-steals-venezuelan-military-secrets-to-provide-intelligence-support-for-thereactionaries-hpreact-campaign
September 25, 2020
Learn more about 360 Total Security
In June 2020, 360 Security Center discovered a new backdoor Pyark written in Python by
the fileless attack protection function. Through in-depth excavation and trace analysis of
the backdoor, we discovered a series of advanced threat actions that have been active
since 2019. By invading various military institutions in Venezuela, the attackers deployed
backdoor to continuously monitor and steal the latest military secrets. We named it APTC-43 based on 360’s way of naming the APT organization
When tracing the attacker’s source, we found that the duration of this attack coincided
with the Venezuelan political chaos, and the network assets used by the attackers were
mostly deployed in Colombia, and some assets were frequently found in Venezuela and
Colombia. After the United Venezuelan coup, the reactionary government headed by Juan
Gerardo Guaidó Márquez fled to Colombia to seek military assistance. We guess the
political background of APT-C -43’s campaign may be to help the reactionaries led by
Juan steal military secrets of the Venezuelan military and provide intelligence support for
the confrontation between the reactionary government and the current Venezuelan
government. Therefore, we named this series of attacks HpReact.
In the process of tracing the source, the campaign was linked to the APT group Machete,
and Machete can be traced back to 2010. The organization is an APT organization with
Spanish roots. Its targets are military, embassies and government agencies in Latin
America. the Lord. Obviously, the HpReact campaign is only a small part of the
organization’s cyber warfare in Latin America.
The picture below shows the decoy document used by APT-C-43 in this campaign. The
content of the document is a policy issued by the Venezuelan authorities to prevent
deserters from going to Colombia to support the reactionary government. More about this
policy. For details, please refer to Appendix 1 . It can be seen that the attackers have a
good understanding of Venezuela’s current politics, military, etc., and are good at using
such sensitive files to make decoy documents, which are highly targeted and inductive.
https://blog.360totalsecurity.com/en/apt-c-43-steals-venezuelan-military-secrets-to-provide-intelligence-support-for-the-reactionaries-hpreact-campaign/ 1/12
9/28/2020 apt-c-43-steals-venezuelan-military-secrets-to-provide-intelligence-support-for-the-reactionaries-hpreact-campaign