7. Conclusion
This report described a seven year campaign with targets in several Latin American countries. While there are many well
known threat actors in Latin America, many of the most visible are engaged in cybercrime. What distinguishes Packrat is
the extensive and often ingenious targeting of political figures, journalists and others. They are also distinguished by their
ability to remain active over such an extended period, seemingly unfazed by discovery.
Packrat highlights the extent to which multi-year campaigns can be run using limited technical sophistication, and a lot
of creativity. From a technical perspective, they rely almost entirely on off-the-shelf RATs and packers to evade antivirus
detection. Where they excel is in the time and effort spent to create detailed and moderately convincing fake
organizations to seed their malware.
Their persistence, and their willingness to keep using domains even after they are exposed suggests that exposure of their
infrastructure is not an existential threat. Their threats and taunts are similarly brazen. This strongly suggests, but does not
prove, that Packrat operates with a perception of safety.
Ultimately, this report does not conclusively attribute Packrat’s activities, however we hope that by exposing their
activities, we have provided encouragement to others to continue to follow the thread.
Note: The Precarious Position of Media in Latin America
While we discourage a direct link between specific incidents of non-digital harassment of journalists and Packrat, the
case highlights the difficult situation faced by journalists and freedom of expression supporters in countries like Ecuador.
In Ecuador, for example, numerous observers, including the United Nations Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression,
have expressed concern that the freedoms afforded to journalists continue to be constricted. In Ecuador journalists, and
even cartoonists, have faced apparent retaliation for political speech. Journalist Martha Roldos, for example, had
personal e-mails exposed in the press, and recordings of her conversations played in public. Freedom of expression and
journalism organization Fundamedios, which has documented over 600 attacks against journalists from 2008-2012, has
face forced shutdown. Interestingly, both of these individuals were also targets of Packrat. While we have no evidence
linking the perpetrators of these actions to Packrat, nor reason to believe the sponsor is the same, the targeted malware
that we describe only adds to the threats these individuals and organizations face.