Executive Summary
At some point, Russian and Eastern European cybercriminals are going to start
thinking to themselves, ‘Why am I spending all of this time and money setting
up infrastructure and hiring malware developers when I can just send someone
an email, ask them to send me money, and they’ll do it.’
For more than a year, this is a line we have used over and over again, expecting that some
of the world’s most dangerous cybercriminals would move into the world of business email
compromise (BEC) because the return on investment for basic social engineering attacks is
much higher than more sophisticated malware-based attacks. For the first time, this report
shows how these expectations have now become a reality, detailing a Russian criminal
organization we call Cosmic Lynx.
We have observed more than 200 BEC campaigns linked to Cosmic Lynx since July
2019, targeting individuals in 46 countries on six continents. Unlike most BEC groups that
are relatively target agnostic, Cosmic Lynx has a clear target profile: large, multinational
organizations. Nearly all of the organizations Cosmic Lynx has targeted have a significant global
presence and many of them are Fortune 500 or Global 2000 companies. The target employees
of Cosmic Lynx are senior-level executives. Like other BEC groups, it seems Cosmic Lynx
identifies employees to target based on their title. Three quarters of employees targeted by
Cosmic Lynx hold the titles of Vice President, General Manager, or Managing Director.
Cosmic Lynx employs a dual impersonation scheme. The pretext of their attacks is that the
target organization is preparing to close an acquisition with an Asian company as part of a
corporate expansion. First, they impersonate a company’s CEO, asking the target employee to
work with “external legal counsel” to coordinate the payments needed to close the acquisition.
Then, Cosmic Lynx hijacks the identity of a legitimate attorney at a UK-based law firm whose
job it is to facilitate the transaction. Cosmic Lynx prefers to use mule accounts in Hong Kong to
receive stolen funds. The group is actively resistant to using mule accounts in the United States,
but has provided secondary accounts located in Hungary, Portugal, and Romania.
Cosmic Lynx exploits DMARC controls to spoof the email addresses of impersonated CEOs,
making their attacks appear much more authentic. For organizations that have implemented an
established DMARC policy set to reject (p=reject) or quarantine (p=quarantine), Cosmic Lynx
modifies the display name impersonating a CEO to include their email address, which still gives
it the look that the email is coming from the CEO’s account.
Domains registered by Cosmic Lynx are named in a way to mimic secure email and network
infrastructure (e.g., secure-mail-gateway[.]cc, encrypted-smtp-transport[.]cc, mx-secure-net[.]
com). The mailbox referenced in a Cosmic Lynx email address usually references celestial
bodies, like planets and stars--hence the “Cosmic” in Cosmic Lynx-- similar to the naming
convention of some SMTP or DNS name servers.
To make their infrastructure more resilient and mask their identity in Whois records, Cosmic
Lynx has registered a number of their domains with NiceVPS, a bulletproof hosting and
anonymous domain provider. Cosmic Lynx’s infrastructure has also been linked to other types
of malicious activity, including Emotet and Trickbot banking Trojans, Android click fraud
malware, a popular carding marketplace, and Russian fake document websites.
2