The delivery emails
The infection starts with an email sent to a target, as seen in the screenshot below (Figure 1). In multiple
instances, we noticed the attacker used open or compromised mail servers in South America to facilitate the
campaigns. The attacker also connected to the compromised servers from IP addresses that were linked to
dynamic domain names used as C&Cs by the delivered payloads. This suggests that the attacker uses the
same infrastructure to send emails and control victims.
The sender of the email is usually spoofed, and we saw multiple email subjects enticing the receiver to open
the attachment, which is an RTF file. Examples of such subjects are:
“Hemos iniciado un proceso en su contra por violencia laboral.” (Loosely translates to “We have filed a
lawsuit against you for workplace violence.”)
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 1/10
7/19/2019 Spam Campaign Targets Colombian Entities with Custom-made ‘Proyecto RAT,’ Uses Email Service YOPmail for C&C - TrendLabs Security Inte…
“Se hara efectivo un embargo a su(s) cuenta(s) Bancarias.” (Loosely translates to “Your banking
accounts are going to be blocked.”)
“Almacenes exito te obsequia una tarjeta regalo virtual por valor de $500.000.” (Loosely translates to
“Exito shops offer you a virtual gift worth $500.000.”)
Figure 1. Delivery email
The attached RTF file contains one line of text and a link. The text relates to the email subject, such as “You
can see the complaint against you below.” or “See the complaint online.” Note that the link to the malware
uses the URL shortener cort.as, which belongs to the El País newspaper. Unfortunately, this service only
enables statistics on demand, and the attacker never enabled them.
Figure 2. RTF document attached to the delivery email
Figure 3. URL shortener cort.as
Clicking on the link redirects the victim to a file on a file-sharing service. The file is a delivery document that
contains macros.
Figure 4. Shortened URL redirects to a file hosted on a cloud file-sharing service
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 2/10
7/19/2019 Spam Campaign Targets Colombian Entities with Custom-made ‘Proyecto RAT,’ Uses Email Service YOPmail for C&C - TrendLabs Security Inte…