Attribution
SPINNER backdoor
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 17/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
As with any unknown malware sample, the SPINNER loader and backdoor analysis required CPR
to determine whether it was a known malware sample or an entirely new malware family. At first
glance, the payload looked similar to the PlugX/Hodur malware described by ESET in a recently
published report on Chinese APT Mustang Panda. The first similarity is in the ID numbering of
C&C commands: both malware use 2 bytes to specify the command category and 2 bytes for a
specific command from this category. For example, the command 0x10010001 is used in the
SPINNER variant to send the system information data, while Hodur malware uses the command
group 0x1001 and command ID 0x1001 for the same action.
In addition, some of the commands themselves overlap between the samples, such as those that list
the logical drives, get detailed information about the files in a directory, or execute commands
using cmd.exe. These functionalities are not unique and can usually be found in many backdoors.
In this case, the two malware share an even greater and more surprising similarity. After opening
the Hodur PlugX variant in the disassembler, it became apparent that Hodur — like SPINNER —
was heavily obfuscated using Control Flow Flattening (CFF). However, Hodur’s CFF is different
from SPINNER’s. Hodur’s CFF relies on a dispatcher that uses a certain register to decide which
code block to jump to next, while in SPINNER the register is used as-is without any manipulation.
In the PlugX variant, additional arithmetic operations are used on the register before it is checked
by the dispatcher. To complete the obfuscation comparison, Hodur heavily obfuscates its API calls
and strings, a step which is absent in SPINNER.
Figure 13: Control flow flattening used in SPINNER variant (on the left) vs control flow flattening
with arithmetic operations on the CFF register used in the Hodur variant (on the right).
In terms of implementation, the malware samples are entirely different. Hodur is a multithreaded
Windows Desktop application and communicates with the C&C through multiple threads, each
with its own purpose, while SPINNER is a single-threaded Console application. Hodur’s
enumeration method is more extensive than SPINNER’s, but it does not use Bot ID which
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 18/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
identifies a specific infected machine. The self-delete function in Hodur might be similar in its
logic to SPINNER, but it uses a completely different set of commands to delete itself and its
associated files. Hodur’s communication logic with the C&C is more complex, drawn from
different parts of the code and from multiple threads, while SPINNER has only has one function
that handles the commands.
While the differences indicate these malware belong to different families, they share “best
practices” similarities. Here are some examples of their similarities:
Both use WS2_32 functions to retrieve the local computer IPv4 address
They show interest in enumeration files in certain directories by looking for specific data
such as the last access time
Both enumerate the disk drives, searching thumb drives for interesting data
They execute commands from the C&C through cmd.exe using a pipe, etc.
It can be argued that those are just common techniques used by all backdoors, but it is not unlikely
that these tools might have the same upstream source and therefore share many best practices and
methods.
Chinese-based activity
The Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) of this operation enabled us to attribute it to
Chinese APT activity. In general, Chinese groups are known to reuse and share tools between
them. Without enough strong evidence, such as infrastructure-based connections, we couldn’t
directly attribute this activity with high confidence to any specific Chinese threat actor. However,
the Twisted Panda campaign bears multiple overlaps with advanced and long-standing Chinese
cyberespionage actors:
The control-flow obfuscations observed in SPINNER were previously used by the Chinese
group APT10 and reappeared in a recent Mustang Panda espionage campaign:
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 19/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
Figure 14: Control-flow obfuscations in MustangPanda sample
(698d1ade6defa07fb4e4c12a19ca309957fb9c40).
APT group Mustang Panda was observed exploiting the invasion of Ukraine to target
Russian entities around the same time as Twisted Panda.
The infection flow relying on DLL side-loading is a favorite evasion technique used by
multiple Chinese actors. Examples include the infamous PlugX malware (and its multiple
variants, including the aforementioned Mustang Panda’ Hodur samples), the recently
published APT10 global espionage campaign that used the VLC player for side-loading, and
other APT10 campaigns.
In addition to the similarities between SPINNER and Hodur that we previously mentioned,
other practices like multi-layer in-memory loaders based on shellcodes and PEs, especially
combined with dynamic API resolutions via hashes, are also a signature technique for many
Chinese groups.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2022/twisted-panda-chinese-apt-espionage-operation-against-russians-state-owned-defense-institutes/ 20/30
6/6/22, 10:24 AM Twisted Panda: Chinese APT espionage operation against Russian’s state-owned defense institutes - Check Point Research
The victimology of the Twisted Panda campaign is consistent with Chinese long-term
interests.