3 Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis
3.1 Core Concepts
The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis provides a formalized way to characterize network intrusions (Caltagirone, Pendergast and Betz 2013). The Diamond Model gets its name from the
fundamental data structure it uses to describe intrusion events: a graph of four connected features
that describe the adversary, capability, infrastructure, and victim involved, as shown in Figure 1.
Each of these elements is itself a tuple of various data points, which may be tailored to the specific analysis being conducted. Generally, the tuple includes elements such as organization/actor
(if known), IP address, application, source/destination port, and related elements (Caltagirone,
Pendergast and Betz 2013). Crucially, each element forms an ordered pair with a confidence level,
which facilitates using this model to develop analytic products. In addition, an event has meta-features such as start and end time, phase, result, direction, methodology, and resources (Caltagirone,
Pendergast and Betz 2013). To understand the PCAP data, we created events (including their necessary subcomponents) to characterize and associate activities by potential threat actors. The Diamond Model’s use of tuples complements SiLK’s use of 5-tuples for capturing network flow
metadata, facilitating the integration of this information when generating event data.
Figure 1: A Diamond Model Event (Caltagirone, Pendergast and Betz 2013)
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 6
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited
3.2 Analytic Pivoting
The architects of the model describe analytic pivoting as a process that allows an analyst to obtain
missing information by combining data from within one of the four primary tuples with other
sources of intelligence (Caltagirone, Pendergast and Betz 2013). Analytic pivoting is at the center
of this study: it enabled us to assemble details of threats revealed by the honeynet into usable theses. In many cases, all but one of the data tuples was evident in an event. To obtain the missing
information, we made inferences using data that was shared across seemingly disparate events.
We used the two methods described in Section 4.3 to enumerate and connect these data.
3.3 Activity Group Creation
The Diamond Model architects describe the activity group (AG) as “a set of Diamond events and
activity threads associated by similarities in their features or processes and weighted by confidence” (Caltagirone, Pendergast and Betz 2013). In essence, an AG is a way to relate numerous
events in order to grasp the implications of apparently correlated activities and develop effective
defenses driven by a complete understanding of the potential threat actor (Caltagirone, Pendergast
and Betz 2013). Particularly when considering such a large data set, it is important to have a
method for rapidly associating events. AGs complement analytic pivoting by using salient features to develop an overall characterization of a potential threat actor. This process also makes it
possible to establish targeted, robust network defenses.
Our study does not attempt to provide threat attribution, merely the characterization of observable
activities relevant to ICS network defense. Additionally, we lack corroborating sources that tie the
technical indicators within the PCAP data to specific individuals or organizations. While some inference might be possible in the creation of AGs, the events themselves are wholly lacking in adversary data. Caltagirone and colleagues observe that this lack of data is a likely situation for most
Diamond Model analyses (Caltagirone, Pendergast and Betz 2013).
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 7
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited