Information Warfare Monitor field research
In September and October 2008 the Information Warfare Monitor investigated information security
practices and alleged cyber espionage activities on the computer systems in various offices related
to the work of the Dalai Lama and other Tibetan groups. The offices that we investigated were:
the Office of His Holiness the Dalai Lama (OHHDL), based in Dharamsala, India; the Tibetan
Government-in-Exile (TGIE); various Offices of Tibet (OOT) in New York City, London, Paris, Brussels,
and Geneva; and the Tibetan activist NGO, Drewla. ( See Fig. 4 - p. 23)
Office of His Holiness the Dalai Lama
The OHHDL is the personal office of the Dalai Lama. The OHHDL provides secretarial assistance and
is responsible for all matters related to the Dalai Lama and acts on his behalf. It is worth noting
that the OHHDL’s primary responsibilities include organization of the Dalai Lama’s international
schedule, handling all diplomatic, governmental and personal correspondence, and acting as
the liaison between the Dalai Lama and officials of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (TGIE) and
the Offices of Tibet (OOT) worldwide. Therefore the OHHDL’s computer network is continuously
transmitting and receiving extremely sensitive data.
While the Office does not have any secrets, it is essentially the hub of the Tibetan movement and
thus handles strategic, time-sensitive communications. Examples of these communications include
scheduling meetings with world leaders, and, since 2002, coordinating the negotiations between
the People’s Republic of China and Dharamsala.
On September 10, 2008, we used Wireshark to capture packets from an OHHDL computer named
~~xxxxxx~~ ~~.~~ We chose ~~xxxxxxx~~ from among 23 computers on the OHHDL internal network due to
time constraints and consultations with office staff to identify the computers most likely to be
infected, such as those operated by relatively inexperienced users vulnerable to social engineering
techniques, or those handling particularly sensitive data.
An analysis of the data collected reveals that this computer was compromised by malware that was
in interactive communication with identified control servers. The infected computer connected to
40 http://www.businessweek.com/print/magazine/content/08_16/b4080032218430.htm
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART TWO