Comnie Malware Family
Comnie uses the RC4 algorithm in multiple locations both to obfuscate strings used by the malware, as well as for network
communication. Additionally, the malware looks for multiple security products on victim machines and sometimes alters its
behavior depending on the products present. More information about how Comnie handles identified security products may
be found in the technical analysis in the Appendix. These security products included those that are known to be most widely
used within South Korea and Taiwan.
Comnie is able to achieve persistence via a .lnk file that is stored within the victim’s startup path. When originally run,
Comnie will convert itself from an executable file to a DLL and will write this newly created DLL to the host machine’s
%APPDATA% directory. The built-in Windows utility rundll32.exe is then used to load this DLL by the original .lnk file.
Unit 42 has observed a total of two variants of Comnie. One of the ways the variants differ is in how they obtain their
command and control (C2) information. Both variants make use of third-party online services in an attempt to prevent DNS
based blocking of their first stage communications. However, the obfuscation mechanism varies slightly. In older variants,
Comnie was found to look for the ‘++a++’ markers. The example C2s used by older variants of Comnie demonstrates this:
Figure 9 Old Comnie variants collecting C2 information
Please refer to the Appendix for a script that may be used to decode C2 information from the older Comnie variants.
Newer Comnie variants, such as the ones witnessed in the most recent attacks, instead look for the ‘magnet:/’ and ‘?’
markers, such as in the following recent example:
Figure 10 New Comnie variants determining their C2 information via a GitHub profile.
After Comnie collects the remote C2 information, it will communicate with these remote servers using HTTP requests. These
requests are encrypted using the RC4 algorithm. Comnie will upload information about the victim. It also allows the attacker
to provide and subsequently execute a batch script (BAT), executable file (EXE), or dynamic-link library (DLL).
More detailed information about how C2 information is decoded and additional technical analysis of Comnie may be found
in the Appendix.