3. The malware hosting infrastructure
3.1. The HTTP File Server
While analyzing the download URL down.pzchao.com, we realized that it runs on a HTTP fi le server and we managed to obtain a list of
all fi les hosted on it, including meta-information such as last modifi cation timestamps and number of downloads. A partial list of fi les
and the number of hits can be seen in the image below:
[11]
Whitepaper
Another interesting aspect is that attackers often reset the download counters along with the IP Logs that keep a record of the targeted
victims of different campaigns. As shown in the hit log above, the most-downloaded malicious modules are the SFX installer and the
Gh0st RAT backdoor. The statistics also show that the number of hits (and implicitly, the number of victims) is constantly increasing, as
per the graphic below:
3.1.1. Backdoors
The malware server also hosts fi ve payloads that act as backdoors on the targeted systems. All fi ve payloads are versions of the Gh0st
RAT tool. Two of these (8060.exe and 8555-.exe) communicate with the same main C&C server rat.pzchao.com. What differs is that
the packets exchanged between the client and the server begin with a plaintext header “Spidern”, followed by the data packet that is
compressed using zlib.
The other two samples (9527.exe and 8555++.exe) communicate with other two servers that are part of the infrastructure dll.pzchao.
com ; 455.pzchao.com. These versions will download the RAT server from dll.pzchao.com.
[12]
Whitepaper
3.1.2. YPrat
The download server also contains a Remote Access Trojan developed in Python (both client and server). This server is used to listen
for connections on the same IP but on a different port (444). Our analysis revealed that it has extra features, such as downloading and
uploading fi les on remote infected systems, as well as information harvesting. Judging by the small number of downloads, we presume
that this payload is currently undergoing testing.
3.1.3 Port Scanning Tools
Another category of tools hosted on the same server is port scanning applications, complemented by a set of IP logs passed as an
argument to the scanning tools. These logs feature a range of subnets, mainly located in Asia. They are contained within the IP logs,
which means that, prior to an infection, the attackers fi rst search for vulnerabilities to exploit on the targeted systems.