Anomaly detection makes it possible to move past what is already known, and discover possible new exploits.
that no alert will be generated. The reason for this possibility is
that not all deviations from baseline are detrimental. Similar to
other detections, when the system detects ambiguous activity,
supporting evidence and correlation with other detections are
sought to confirm.
One of the major advantages of anomaly detection is that it
enables detections to move past what is already known, and
discover possible new exploits. Anomalies can lead researchers
to dig deeper, and come up with new analytics that define new
“known” threats.
An example of an anomaly-based detection is a brute force attack. A brute force
attack is characterized by repeated attempts to log onto a virtual machine with
guessed user names and passwords. Azure Security Center can detect that the
number of failed log on attempts has reached a statistically significant level and
generate an alert, as seen in Figure 8.
16 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
Figure 8. Azure Security Center detects a failed brute force attack
Detection fusion
As stated several times in this section, instances exist when a specific detection is
non-specific, which requires supporting evidence to reduce the probability of a
false positive. A very effective method for reducing ambiguity (and the false
positive rate) is to correlate individual alerts generated throughout the cyber kill
chain.
The correlations provide the context needed to confirm that the findings of each
of the individual alerts represents an actual security event. We call this
combination or correlation of multiple alerts along the kill chain a security
incident .
Security incidents are explicitly identified in the alerts section of Azure Security
Center. In addition, incidents help to reduce investigation time by providing
insight into what steps the attacker took, and what specific resources were
affected.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  17
Incidents tie together alerts during attack progression. A simplified
characterization of the cyber kill chain places incidents into one of three phases:
       Target and attack


       Install and exploit


       - Post breach

Target and attack
The target and attack phase represents the reconnaissance and deliver phases
of the cyber kill chain.
For example, a brute force attack against a virtual machine fits into this phase;
alerts related to brute force attacks are placed here.
When an attacker launches a brute force attack against a virtual machine, Azure
Security Center will use anomaly detection to determine whether the number of
logon attempts exceeds what is expected. If so, Azure Security Center surfaces a
failed brute force attempt alert to the user.
Install and exploit
The system analyzes the results of the initial attack during the install and exploit
phase.
Some of the things considered during this phase include:
       Evidence of existing malware signatures (using Microsoft antimalware or

partner solutions)
       In-memory malware (using crash dump analysis)


       Suspicious process execution (using behavioral analysis)


       - Lateral movement


       - Internal reconnaissance

Suppose an attacker were able to gain access to a virtual machine using a brute
force attack (which would have taken place during the target and attack phase).
Malware is installed on the machine (during the install and exploit phase) and
the malware ends up causing a process to crash.
Azure Security Center will collect a copy of the crash dump and scan it for
evidence of in-memory malware. If an exploit (such as malicious shellcode) is
18 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER
found, an alert will be generated and assigned to the target and attack phase of
the kill chain.
Post breach
Attackers execute their plans during the post breach phase, which includes all
the activities attackers carry out using automated or manual processes on
compromised virtual machines.
For example, a virtual machine is compromised by a brute force attack during
the target and attack phase and an alert is generated. The attacker installs
malware, and another alert is generated during the install and exploit phase.
Finally, the malware generates large amounts of SMTP traffic. This SMTP traffic is
correlated with the Office 365 SPAM database to determine whether this traffic
is legitimate or SPAM. If the assessment is SPAM, an alert is generated by Azure
Security Center.
In addition to these alerts, an incident (defined as a collection of alerts) is
generated by Azure Security Center indicating a very high probability that a
successful compromise has taken place because of the correlation and
verification of and by multiple alerts.
Figure 9 shows a number of security incidents as reported by Azure Security
Center.
Figure 9. A list of security incidents in Azure Security Center
Azure Security Center also provides the ability to drill down on a security
incident and provide detailed information on the individual alerts that were
correlated to create the incident, as shown in Figure 9.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  19
Figure 10. Azure Security Center provides additional information about security events
Summary
The cloud introduces a number of new attack vectors that were previously
unavailable to intruders in the on-premises world. These new attack types
require that we evolve our methods of attack detection. Detecting cloud-based
attacks requires us to address and act on the differences between the onpremises and cloud kill chains. There are also security benefits from running
your workloads in the cloud, as you’ll benefit from Microsoft’s comprehensive
threat intelligence and security expertise. Azure Security Center takes advantage
of a multi-layered approach to threat detection, which ranges from rudimentary
signature based systems all the way up to machine learning driven approaches
and detection fusion. See azure.microsoft.com for more details and to take
advantage of a 90 day free trial of Azure Security Center.
20 PROTECTING CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE: DETECTING AND MITIGATING THREATS USING AZURE SECURITY CENTER