ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
The ICS Cyber Kill Chain was published by SANS in 2015 by Michael Assante and Robert M. Lee as an adaptation
of the traditional cyber kill chain developed by Lockheed Martin analysts as it applied to ICSs. [20] The ICS Cyber Kill
Chain details the steps an adversary must follow to perform a high-confidence attack on the ICS process and/or
cause physical damage to equipment in a predictable and controllable way, as displayed in Figure 4.
Figure 4: The ICS Cyber Kill Chain with Stage 1 Highlighted
The attack on the Ukrainian power grid followed the ICS Cyber Kill Chain completely throughout Stage 1 and
Stage 2. The attack gained access to each level of the ICS, as shown in Figure 5, with the ICS Cyber Kill Chain
plotted alongside a segmentation/hierarchy model (e.g., modified Purdue Model). Completing Stage 1 entails a
successful cyber intrusion or breach into an ICS system, but is not characterized as an ICS attack. Completion of
Stage 2 completed the ICS Kill Chain, resulting in a successful cyber attack that led to an impact on the
operations of the ICS. The next section includes a discussion of the two stages using currently available
information from the attack.
20 https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/ICS/industrial-control-system-cyber-kill-chain-36297
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
4
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
Figure 5: Ukraine Cyber Attack ICS Cyber Kill Chain and Purdue Model Mapping [21]
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping – Stage 1
The first step in Stage 1 is Reconnaissance . There were no reports of observed reconnaissance having taken
place prior to targeting the energy companies. However, an analysis of the three impacted organizations shows
they were particularly interesting targets due to the levels of automation in their distribution system; enabling
the remote opening of breakers in a number of substations. Additionally, the targeting and final attack plan for
the electricity companies in general were highly coordinated, which indicates that reconnaissance took place at
some point. This was very unlikely to have been an opportunistic attack.
The second step is Weaponization and/or Targeting . Targeting would normally take place when no
weaponization is needed; such as directly accessing internet connected devices. In this attack, it does not appear
that targeting of specific infrastructure was necessary to gain access. Instead, the adversaries weaponized
Microsoft Office documents (Excel and Word) by embedding BlackEnergy 3 within the documents. [22] Samples of
Excel and other office documents have been recovered from the broader access campaign that targeted a
multitude of organizations in Ukraine; including Office documents used in the specific attack against the three
electricity companies. [23, 24 ]
During the cyber intrusion stage of Delivery, Exploit, and Install, the malicious Office documents were delivered
21 Note, the exact architectures of the impacted utilities are not represented in the figure. The Purdue Model is a standard way of viewing
different zones of a well-constructed ICS.
22 https://securelist.com/blog/research/73440/blackenergy-apt-attacks-in-ukraine-employ-spearphishing-with-word-documents/
23 https://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-14-281-01B
24 Those looking for Indicators of Compromise for the word document, command and control servers, and the malware should look to EISAC, ICS-CERT, and iSight private reporting as well as public reporting from Kaspersky Labs, ESET, and CYS Centrum reference:
https://cys-centrum.com/ru/news/black energy 2 3 and https://securelist.com/blog/research/73440/blackenergy-apt-attacks-in-
ukraine-employ-spearphishing-with-word-documents/
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
5
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
via email to individuals in the administrative or IT network of the electricity companies. When these documents
were opened, a popup was displayed to users to encourage them to enable the macros in the document as
shown in Figure 6. [25] Enabling the macros allowed the malware to Exploit Office macro functionality to install
BlackEnergy 3 on the victim system and was not an exploit of a vulnerability through exploit code. There was no
observed exploit code in this incident. The theme of using available functionality in the system was present
throughout the adversary’s kill chain.
Figure 6: A Sample of a BlackEnergy 3 Infected Microsoft Office Document [26]
Upon the Install step, the BlackEnergy 3 malware connected to command and control (C2) IP addresses to
enable communication by the adversary with the malware and the infected systems. These pathways allowed
the adversary to gather information from the environment and enable access. The attackers appear to have
gained access more than six months prior to December 23, 2015, when the power outage occurred. [27] One of
their first actions happened when the network was to harvest credentials, escalate privileges, and move laterally
throughout the environment (e.g., target directory service infrastructure to directly manipulate and control the
authentication and authorization system). At this point, the adversary completed all actions to establish
persistent access to the targets. While the initial footholds were used to harvest legitimate credentials for
pivoting and systematic takeover of IT systems and remote connections, it is likely that the attackers moved
quickly away from their initial footholds and vulnerable C2s in an effort to blend into the target’s systems as
authorized users. With this information, the attackers would be able to identify VPN connections and avenues
from the business network into the ICS network. Using native connections and commands allows the attackers
to discover the remainder of the systems and extract data necessary to formulate a plan for Stage 2.
25 For a detailed understanding of the infected Microsoft Office documents and the malicious payload see Kaspersky Lab’s write-up here:
https://securelist.com/blog/research/73440/blackenergy-apt-attacks-in-ukraine-employ-spearphishing-with-word-documents/
26 https://securelist.com/blog/research/73440/blackenergy-apt-attacks-in-ukraine-employ-spearphishing-with-word-documents/
27
http://politicalpistachio.blogspot.com/2016/01/russian-hackers-take-down-power-grid-in.html
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
6
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
Using the stolen credentials, the adversary was able to pivot
Speculation
into the network segments where SCADA dispatch
There was not enough publicly available
workstations and servers existed. Upon entry into the
information to determine how diversified
network, the actions of the adversaries were consistent in
the adversary’s attack was to include how
theme but different in technical minutia between the three
many different types of devices were
impacted oblenergoss. In at least one of the oblenergos, the
impacted at the firmware level. However,
attackers discovered a network connected to a UPS and
through publicly available information
reconfigured it so that when the attacker caused a power
about the Ukrainian networks, as well as
outage, it was followed by an event that would also impact the
knowledge of similar electric distribution
power in the energy company’s buildings or data
systems, it is likely that there was a diverse
centers/closets.
hardware and software environment.
There is not sufficient information available to identify if any
It is suspected that the administrative and
information was exfiltrated from the environment, but the
ICS networks contained multiple OS
adversary demonstrated a capability in Stage 2 that indicates
versions such as Windows XP and Windows
internal discovery was performed. This reconnaissance would
7, multiple types of RTUs and gateways,
have needed to include discovering field devices such as the
and various industrial switches.
serial-to-ethernet devices used to interpret commands from
the SCADA network to the substation control systems.
Additionally, the three oblenergos used different distribution management systems (DMSs), and the attackers
would have needed to perform some network reconnaissance against these systems and find specific targets to
execute their highly coordinated attack. [28]
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping – Stage 2
In most cases, the Develop stage occurs in the adversary’s networks, thereby limiting any available forensic
information, but the attack that follows this stage can reveal a lot about the adversarial process. In the Attack
Development and Tuning Stage of Stage 2, the attackers executed the Develop step in at least two ways. First,
they learned how to interact with the three distinct DMS environments using the native control present in the
system and operator screens. Second, and more importantly, they developed malicious firmware for the serialto-ethernet devices. [29]
Currently available information indicates that the malicious firmware was consistent amongst devices and
uploaded within short periods of each other to multiple sites. Therefore, the malicious uploads of firmware was
likely developed prior to the attack for quick and predictable execution.
E-ISAC and the SANS ICS team assess with high confidence that, during the Validation Stage of Stage 2, the
adversary did Test their capabilities prior to their deployment. It is possible that the adversaries were able to
execute this with pure luck, but it is highly unlikely and inconsistent with the professionalism observed
throughout the rest of the attack. The adversaries likely had systems in their organization that they were able to
evaluate and test their firmware against prior to executing on December 23rd.
28 The three different DMS vendors were discoverable via open-source searching. The names of the vendors are being withheld as it is not
important to the discussion of the attack. There were no exploits leveraged against these vendors but they were simply abused with
direct access.
29
http://mpe.kmu.gov.ua/minugol/control/uk/publish/article;jsessionid=CE1C739AA046FF6BA00FE8E8A4D857F3.app1?art id=24508688
6&cat id=35109
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
7
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
During the ICS Attack Stage, the adversaries used native software to Deliver themselves into the environment
for direct interaction with the ICS components. They achieved this using existing remote administration tools on
the operator workstations. The threat actors also continued to use the VPN access into the IT environment. [30]
In final preparation for the attack, the adversaries completed the Install/Modify stage by installing malicious
software identified as a modified or customized KillDisk across the environment. While it is likely the attackers
then ensured their modifications to the UPS were ready for the attack, there was not sufficient forensic
evidence available to prove this. The last act of modification was for the adversaries to take control of the
operator workstations and thereby lock the operators out of their systems. Figure 7 shows the static analysis of
the KillDisk API imports following the event.
Figure 7: Static Analysis of KillDisk Identifying API Imports [31]
Finally, to complete the ICS Cyber Kill Chain and to Execute the ICS Attack, the adversaries used the HMIs in the
SCADA environment to open the breakers. At least 27 substations (the total number is probably higher) were
taken offline across the three energy companies, impacting roughly 225,000 customers. [32, 33] Simultaneously, the
attackers uploaded the malicious firmware to the serial-to-ethernet gateway devices. This ensured that even if
30
http://mpe.kmu.gov.ua/minugol/control/uk/publish/article;jsessionid=CE1C739AA046FF6BA00FE8E8A4D857F3.app1?art id=24508688
6&cat id=35109
31 This image was provided by Jake Williams of Rendition InfoSec. It is included here to note that KillDisk would not run properly in a
malware sandbox for analysis. Static analysis was required to fully investigate the malware sample.
32 http://money.cnn.com/2016/01/18/technology/ukraine-hack-russia/
33
In analysis of the impact observed and on the available information on the Ukrainian distribution grid it is assessed with medium
confidence that the public number of disconnected substations, 27, is a low number.
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
8
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
the operator workstations were recovered, remote commands could not be issued to bring the substations back
online (We have characterized the firmware attacks against field communication devices as
“blowing the bridges”).
During this same period, the attackers also leveraged a remote telephonic denial of service on the energy
company’s call center with thousands of calls to ensure that impacted customers could not report outages.
Initially, it seemed that this attack was to keep customers from informing the operators of how extensive the
outages were; however, in review of the entirety of the evidence, it is more likely that the denial of service was
executed to frustrate the customers since they could not contact customer support or gain clarity regarding the
outage. The entire attack from March 2015 – December 23, 2015 is graphically depicted below in Figure 8.
Figure 8: ICS Kill Chain Mapping Chart
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
9
ICS Cyber Kill Chain Mapping
It is extremely important to note that neither BlackEnergy 3, unreported backdoors, KillDisk, nor the malicious
firmware uploads alone were responsible for the outage. Each was simply a component of the cyber attack for
the purposes of access and delay of restoration. For example, on some systems, KillDisk made the Windows
systems inoperable by manipulating or deleting the master boot record, but on other systems it just deleted logs
and system events. [34, 35] The actual cause of the outage was the manipulation of the ICS itself and the loss of
control due to direct interactive operations by the adversary. The loss of view into the system through the
wiping of the SCADA network systems simply delayed restoration efforts.
In summary, Stage 2 consisted of the following attack elements:

Supporting attacks :

o Schedule disconnects for UPS systems
o Telephonic floods against at least one oblenergos’ customer support line


Primary attack : SCADA hijack with malicious operation to open breakers


Amplifying attacks :


o KillDisk wiping of workstations, servers, and an HMI card inside of an RTU
o Firmware attacks against Serial-to-Ethernet devices at substations
34 https://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/IR-ALERT-H-16-056-01
35 https://ics.sans.org/blog/2016/01/01/potential-sample-of-malware-from-the-ukrainian-cyber-attack-uncovered
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
10