Stealing and Exfiltrating Data
Attackers attempted to steal information from databases and other critical servers before
executing wipers to cover their tracks. They then tried to exfiltrate this information to the
attackers’ C2 servers, using different publicly available tools such as WinSCP and Putty.
Extracting Database Information Using Sqlextractor
The attackers used a custom tool they named sqlextractor (binary name sql.net4.exe). Its
purpose is to query SQL databases and extract sensitive PII data, such as the following:
ID numbers
Passport scans
Emails
Full addresses
The data was saved into CSV files as shown in Figures 10 and 11. The tool writes the
data to a hard-coded staging path: C:\windows\temp\s.
Figure 10 shows the attackers then used 7za.exe to archive the extracted data in
preparation for exfiltration.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/agonizing-serpens-targets-israeli-tech-higher-ed-sectors/ 8/29
1/16/24, 1:00 PM Agonizing Serpens (Aka Agrius) Targeting the Israeli Higher Education and Tech Sectors
Figure 10. Sqlextractor and 7za.exe used to extract files and archive them.
Figure 11. Sqlextractor writes extracted data to CSV files.
Figure 12 shows the attackers also used 7zG.exe to archive interesting folders in the
infected environment.
Figure 12. 7zG.exe used to archive various folders.
Data Exfiltration Using WinSCP
The attackers attempted to use WinSCP to exfiltrate files from the environment, as shown
in Figures 13 and 14.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/agonizing-serpens-targets-israeli-tech-higher-ed-sectors/ 9/29
1/16/24, 1:00 PM Agonizing Serpens (Aka Agrius) Targeting the Israeli Higher Education and Tech Sectors
Figure 13. WinSCP being used to exfiltrate files.
Figure 14. Exfiltration alerts by Cortex XDR.
Data Exfiltration Using Pscp.exe (PuTTY Secure Copy Protocol)
Figure 15 shows that another tool the attackers used for exfiltration is pscp.exe (PuTTY
Secure Copy Protocol).
The attackers attempted to establish a connection to the C2, then searched for .7z and
.ezip files that contain stolen data, as well as .dmp files created by ProcDump.
Figure 15. pscp.exe used for exfiltration.