Methodology
We compiled a unified and comprehensive list of infected computers from all the control servers,
as there was considerable duplication across them. There were several duplicate entries in the list
of infected computers—in some cases, the same infected computer was logged multiple times as it
was connecting from a different IP address. In other instances, multiple infected computers were
assigned different internal IP addresses and had different computer names but shared the same
external IP address. This signifies that there were multiple infected computers sharing Internet
access. Where possible, we filtered the results by unique computer name, and if no computer name
was present, we filtered by unique external IP address. [48] ( See Fig. 12 - p. 41)
On the surface, the names of the infected computers in the sample are provocative. There are references
to ministries of foreign affairs, foreign embassies, and other government entities. Some contains names of
officials or their positions/titles. However, we recognize that a computer name can be anything its owner
wishes, and may be completely unrelated to the location, function, or owner of that particular computer.
Therefore, in order to be more confident as to the true identity or purpose of the infected computer,
we relied on reverse DNS look-ups and each IP address’ record from the Regional Internet Registries.
Using these two pieces of information we were able to confirm the validity of the identity of several
infected computers with a high (H) degree of confidence.
In some cases the computer name associated with the infected computer is actually a domain
name or an acronym for a recognizable institution or organization. In these cases we classified our
identification of the target with either a medium (M) or low (L) level of confidence. Medium
confidence refers to instances where we have otherwise identified a related high confidence target,
48 In one case we removed 117 unique IP addresses from Mexico that appeared to belong to the same computer connecting in to the
control server from a DSL provider.
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART TWO 41