Malware
A total of three different malicious update variants were observed, each of which dropped different malware. These variants
are the following:
Malicious Update variant 1
This variant is one of the preliminary updates pointing to compromised BigNox infrastructure. Our analysis is based on the
sample with SHA-1 CA4276033A7CBDCCDE26105DEC911B215A1CE5CF .
The malware delivered does not seem to have been documented before. It is not extremely complex, but it has enough
capabilities to monitor its victims. The initial RAR SFX archive drops two DLLs into
C:\Program Files\Internet Explorer\ and runs one of them, depending on architecture, via rundll32.exe . The
names of these DLLs are the following:
```
   ieproxysocket64.dll
ieproxysocket.dll
```
It also drops a text file named KB911911.LOG to disk, into which the original name of the SFX installer will be written. The
DLL attempts to open and read this log file, and if not found will stop execution, therefore implementing an execution
guardrail.
The DLL will then check whether it has been loaded by any of the following processes; if it has, it will stop its own execution:
```
   smss.exe
winlogon.exe
csrss.exe
wininit.exe
services.exe
explorer.exe
```
The IP address of the machine will be checked to verify that it is neither 127.0.0.1 nor 0.0.0.0 ; if it is, it will be rechecked
in an infinite loop until it changes. Otherwise, it will proceed to extract the UUID of the current machine via a WMI object
query. This returned UUID is hashed using MD5 to serialize the current victim. Account name information will also be
retrieved and saved.
An encrypted configuration will be retrieved from the DLL’s resource. This configuration is encrypted using a two-byte XOR
with 0x5000. The encrypted configuration is partially visible given the weakness of the key used:
Figure 8. Encrypted configuration in resources
The format of this configuration is the following (roughly):
Offset Size Comment
0x00 0x08 Fake JPG header magic
0x08 0x12C Buffer holding tokenized C&C information
0x134 0x14 Buffer holding port for C&C communication
0x148 0x14 Sleep time
0x15C 0x14 Operate flag; don’t operate with network monitoring tools deployed or if this flag is set
0x170 0x14 N/A
0x184 0x14 DNS flag; append a token at the end of a hostname buffer with either |UDP or |DNS, depending on the value of this field
0x198 0x38 Variable holding offset start of decoded configuration buffer
After the configuration has been parsed, the backdoor will check several times for network monitoring processes before
transferring execution to the C&C loop. Operation stops if the Operate flag is set or if either of the following processes is
running:
```
   netman.exe
wireshark.exe
```
The backdoor can use either a raw IP address or a domain name to communicate with the C&C server. After successful
connection to the C&C, the malware will be able to perform the following commands:
Command ID Specification
getfilelist-delete Delete specified files from the disk
getfilelist-run Run a command via the WinExec API
getfilelist-upload Upload a file via ScreenRDP.dll::ConnectRDServer
getfilelist-downfile1 Download a specific file
getfilelist-downfile2 Download a specific directory
getfilelist-downfile3 Same as getfilelist-downfile2
 \tsclient drive redirection of certain directories (starting with A: for range(0x1A))
Figure 9. Anatomy of malicious update variant 1
Malicious Update variant 2
This malware variant was also spotted being downloaded from legitimate BigNox infrastructure. Our analysis is based on the
sample with SHA-1 E45A5D9B03CFBE7EB2E90181756FDF0DD690C00C .
It contains several files comprising what is known as a trident bundle, in which a signed executable is used to load a
malicious DLL, which will decrypt and load a shellcode, implementing a reflective loader for the final payload.
The theme for this trident bundle was to disguise the malware as Sandboxie components. The names of the bundled
components are the following:
Filename Description
C:\ProgramData\Sandboxie\SandboxieBITS.exe Signed Sandboxie COM Services (BITS)
C:\ProgramData\Sandboxie\SbieDll.dll Malicious hijacked DLL
Malicious encrypted payload; decrypts a reflectively loaded instance of
C:\ProgramData\Sandboxie\SbieIni.dat
Gh0st RAT
C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\delself.bat Script to self-delete the initial executable
C:\Windows\System32\wmkawe_3636071.data Text file containing the sentence Stupid Japanese
We have encountered other instances of this same text file, dropped by a very similar loader in a supply-chain compromise
involving the Myanmar presidential office website in 2018, and in an intrusion into a Hong Kong university in 2020.
The deployed final payload was a variant of Gh0st RAT with keylogger capabilities.
Figure 10. Anatomy of malicious update variant 2
Malicious Update variant 3
This update variant was only spotted in activity subsequent to initial malicious updates, downloaded from attacker
controlled infrastructure. Our analysis is based on the sample with SHA-1
AA3D31A1A6FE6888E4B455DADDA4755A6D42BEEB .
Similarly, as with the previous variant, this malicious update comes bundled in an MFC file, and extracts two components: a
benign signed file and a dependency of it. The components are:
Filename Description
C:\ProgramData\LoGiTech\LoGitech.exe Signed Logitech binary
C:\ProgramData\LoGiTech\LBTServ.dll Malicious DLL decrypts and reflectively loads an instance of PoisonIvy
On the most recently discovered victims, the initial downloaded binary was written in Delphi, while for previous victims the
same attacker-controlled URL dropped a binary written in C++. These binaries are the initial preliminary loaders. Although
the loaders were written in different programming languages, both versions deployed the same final payload, that being an
instance of the PoisonIvy RAT.
Figure 11. Anatomy of malicious update variant 3