2 Public Knowledge of a Zero-Day Word Exploit
The story of NCPH zero-day attacks begins publicly on May 18, 2006. On this day the Internet
Storm Center reports a new possible zero-day attack. iDefense worked closely with SANS and
other organizations to analyze the threat landscape as it related to exploitation of this
vulnerability. Within the next 36 hours, iDefense gained access to multiple codes and extracted a
new rootkit called GinWui. Independent research proved the following:

Exploitation targeted a new vulnerability that allowed attackers to successfully exploit

computers running fully patched versions of Microsoft Word 2002 and others.

Exploitation dated to May 12, 2006 and involved at least six unique hostile exploit files.

iDefense confirmed that attacks targeted two organizations, one in the United States and
one in Japan.

Chinese-authored rootkits GinWui.A and GinWui.B exist in several attacks. iDefense

identified the rootkits' source and authors as Chinese actor "Wicked Rose" and others
profiled later in this report.
1
www.suse.edu.cn & http://www.study-in-china.org/school/Sichuan/suse/

Successful installation of the rootkit requires Administrator or Debugger rights. Initial

exploitation, however, does not require Administrator rights.

iDefense identified unique malicious code attacks pointing to nease.net and authored

several Snort signatures for this traffic. iDefense continues to monitor other domains
related to the attack.
The original attack upon a large DoD entity within the USA began on May 12, 2006. Targets of
the attacker were apparently "Googled" by the attacker. Three variations of a Microsoft Word
zero-day attack are involved in the attack. A few dozen attack files are first distributed to less
than a dozen targets to identify which version works within the organization.
Once attackers identify the vulnerable version of Microsoft Word used within the organization
close to 200 messages sent out to multiple targets within the organization within 24 hours. This
second wave of attack is distributed as "Planning document 5-16-2006.doc". This code is
improved beyond the first variant sent out earlier to identify the vulnerable version of Word
within the targeted network.
A third attack commences on May 17, 2006. During this period, the Internet Storm Center and
others get involved and the case becomes public. In the end, iDefense identified six unique
samples, of which three are more prevalent than other variants.