Malicious Code
Throughout the distinct phases of the cyber-attack, we noted that attackers adopted the emerging tactic sometimes
called “living off the land” which involves very limited use of actual malware in the form of malicious files and easily
detected protocols associated with Command & Control and data exfiltration traffic. Instead, the attackers used
legitimate Windows and PowerShell commands in combination with tools such as PSExec for lateral movement.
Notably they also used plink.exe (Windows SSH client) to access RDP over an already established SSH tunnel.
Other software components used in this operation were split among commercial monitoring application (Mipko
Employee Monitor) and the well-known suspect “Cobalt Strike Beacon” mainly used to maintain backdoor
connection with an endpoint geolocated in the United States of America.
It should be noted that after the attackers penetrated the bank’s network, they continually used a specific system
to perform their activities. We focused our investigation on this system after backtracking malicious activities in the
processor’s network to it. Remote Desktop activity on the processor network was identified to have originated from
the bank system. Eventually we asked the bank to provide this system for investigation. At that point, the bank’s IT
staff responded that this system became unbootable shortly after the massive cash out occurred.
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
5
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study
When we obtained a copy of the system for analysis we found it was unbootable and the file system was corrupt.
However, the Trustwave team was able to reconstruct the partition table and analyze the file system enabling
collection and analysis of significant evidence from this key system. One of them was called dropper.exe and
upon execution its main function was to wipe the Master Boot Record on the hard disk, effectively destroying the
system for any future use. This was the last recorded action taken by the attackers before leaving the network. They
appeared to truly care about clearing any remaining tracks of their activity that may have been left behind.
Our investigation did not reveal any signs of data exfiltration from the bank itself. The bank’s network appears to
have been breached for two primary reasons:
1. The bank had an established mechanism to connect to the processor’s network from several terminals inside
the bank network by first establishing a VPN session between the two networks and then using Remote Desktop
Protocol (RDP) to connect from a system inside the bank network to the Windows Terminal Server in the
processor’s network. By attacking the bank’s network, the attackers could piggy back on this connection to get a
foothold on the processor’s network (and subsequently obtain access to the card management application in the
processor’s network)
2. To withdraw funds from the newly issued debit cards for the “rogue” bank accounts, the attackers needed
to obtain credentials of the bank employees that used the card management application on the processor’s
network. Using these credentials, they could change the necessary properties of the debit cards to cash out from
ATM terminals in the final stage of the attack.
Based entirely on the precision with which the attack was carried out, we believe that the attackers had previously
obtained deep inside knowledge of the bank’s network and systems. Similarly, they obtained an understanding
of the processor’s environment, and of the card management software and how these systems could be used
to manipulate a debit card’s sensitive properties such as its overdraft (OD) limit and its Risk Rating. These two
parameters are needed to determine the account’s OD limit and therefore how much money the account holder can
withdraw.
It should also be noted that the attacker’s tradecraft suggests involvement of organized cybercrime groups; for
example, the attackers successfully wiped the Master Boot Record (MBR) of the hard disk attached to the main
Windows system used in this attack. They used specialized malware intending to thwart any future forensic
examination of the system.
It goes without saying that the adverse negative impact of this incident was felt by both the bank and the processor:
• The direct dollar value of the loss incurred by the bank pales in comparison with the harder to quantify intangible
losses suffered because of loss of trust and goodwill with its customers, partners and regulators. Also, the bank
customers’ money remained intact as the debit cards that were used for ATM withdrawals were issued against
the newly created rogue accounts, none of which had any balance since they were set up.
• In the case of the processor, while no direct monetary loss was incurred, the processor likely lost much more in
terms of erosion of trust in their services both with the regulators and their clients (other banks).
Direct dollar loss
and tangible
adverse impact
Adverse impact on
trust and goodwill;
negative impact on
stock prices
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
Brings weakness in
system of controls
to the forefront
Damage to the bank’s
reputation is significantly
larger than direct
dollar loss
6
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study