Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group
4.2 Correlate with other sources
By leveraging data sources such as passive DNS, domain registration
information, other open-source reports, and other research - it is possible
to derive information about probable domains and infrastructure used,
in other attacks by the same group of attackers. In some cases, this
information may provide indicators as to the targets or purpose of the
attacks. It should also be noted that making too many assumptions or
believing unverified indicators as fact can lead to misleading information.
Anyone can set a hostname for a C&C to be “QINETIQ” for example.
However, by correlating these domains with a group that has been
identified as being involved in APT attacks, provides a stronger indication
into their possible target.
4.3 APTs are not always that ‘Advanced’
The above incident reports document (spear-) phishing with a malicious
PDF attachment, or link to a binary executable with a Poison Ivy RAT
payload. While the exploitation used in some of the crafted PDF
attachments may be considered advanced, for the most part the attack is
one of social-engineering. This is nothing new and something that other
fraudsters / criminals have been leveraging for many years. RSA recently
wrapped up their APT summit and their first finding concluded that the
“attack vector [is] shifting from technology to people”. [12]
4.4 APTs are not limited to the United States Government
or Defense Industrial Base
The victim related to this report is neither a Government agency, nor
an entity that would normally be associated with the Defense Industrial
Base. While this report does list USG (United State Government) and
DIB (Defense Industrial Base) entities as possible victims, there are many
more commercial entities within the Geospatial and Telecommunication
industries that appear to have been victims of this Group. Zscaler has
noted both foreign and domestic entities that have been victims of other
APT incidents as well.
12. http://www.rsa.com/summitresults