Reconstructed TCP streams from the traffic capture of C&C commands
The infected host always gets assigned a nickname of “ sEx ” along with a randomly generated integer. In this
example, the host nickname is “ sEx-3635 ”.
Figure 9. TCP stream with a sample host nickname
All infected hosts also showed base C&C connection in the form of PING/PONG traffic, occasionally asked
for updates, and provided some host information like suspicious crontab-like records and process identifier
(PID) of the sd-pam process of the user who was running the IRC bot on the system. The following is the
information exchange about a host, possibly the bot’s new joiner or another target indirectly scanned over the
zombie hosts, the infected host in this case:
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/perl-based-shellbot-looks-to-target-organizations-via-cc/ 7/11
5/12/2020 Perl-Based Shellbot Looks to Target Organizations via C&C - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Figure 10. Host information exchange TCP stream
Figure 11. One of the spotted identities linked to compromised servers
During the traffic monitoring, several identities such as luci, lucian, dragos, mazy, hydra, and poseidon were
spotted in IRC communication channels.
These identities were also found as usernames on a compromised Japanese server. This server seemed to have
a certain importance as it was also used to distribute an early version of this N3-Shellbot. The distribution of
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/perl-based-shellbot-looks-to-target-organizations-via-cc/ 8/11
5/12/2020 Perl-Based Shellbot Looks to Target Organizations via C&C - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
the dropper, n3 file, was done mostly on the second C&C server. Communication with this server is shown in
the following example:
Figure 12. Dragos SSH login
Using the credentials from one of the commands injected into the honeypots, we were able to get downloads
of the files that the threat actors used. The files’ contents often changed on the server (some were deleted,
while some were added). According to the time correlation, it mostly happened in the daytime (in Central
European Time/CET): during business hours and times. The activity never happened at night or on the
weekends, suggesting that the threat actors operated on a somewhat daily basis.
Find a more extensive run-through of this operation, such as how the IRC bouncer involved comments in the
Romanian language, the hacking tools used, exploits related to Ubuntu, and the indicators of compromise
(IoCs), in the Appendix .