CONCLUSIONS
Patchwork is a highly successful targeted attack operation, infecting approximately 2,500 highvalue targets worldwide. It is surprising that it has remained undetected since its operations
began in December, as it seems to have been built out of a confluence of code taken from
various public and hidden criminal forums, as well as various open source projects.
What makes this disclosure special is the use of Cymmetria’s cyber deception platform [19] to catch
the threat actor, capturing their second stage toolset and lateral movement activity. Without
deception, capturing second-stage tools and activity has previously been difficult (to say the
least).
The high degree of operational capacity stands in stark contradiction to the low technical ability
displayed, which raises the question of whether the copy-paste nature of the threat was
potentially intentional, perhaps an evolution of threat actors attempting to avoid the high cost of
losing their expensive tool box and malware when they are eventually publically disclosed. This,
however, seems unlikely, as the use of such second-hand code is consistent with their second
stage toolset meant for persistence, which should typically be built to resist detection.
While one can almost never be conclusive in attribution, based on the information we have it is
plausible that the threat actor is a pro-Indian one. As our CEO Gadi Evron said in an internal
discussion, “There is a possibility that another threat actor wanted to look like India and built a
false flag operation to fit, but there is zero evidence to support that claim, and it feels like we’re
reaching just to attack our own argument.”
Unlike other APT threat actors, India seems to be a relatively quiet locale for cyber espionage
activity, if indeed this is a pro-Indian threat actor, it is noteworthy by itself. The scope and scale
of this operation are quite surprising considering the low technical capability displayed, which we
believe is a growing trend seen among disparate threat actors.

19 Cymmetria’s MazeRunner
Research 24
TLP: GREEN