Locating Attacker Facilities
We correlated information from test devices and Wi-Fi networks to determine
the location of Dark Caracal’s facilities.
Test Devices
Dark Caracal used a series of test devices to confirm that its malware implants
and C2 infrastructure work correctly. Identifying these devices helped us to
determine Dark Caracal’s likely location inside the GDGS building.
Distinguishing between test and target devices can be tricky. After analyzing
data from the infrastructure, we noticed that a subset of the compromised
devices contained similar email, Viber, Primo, Telegram, and Whatsapp accounts.
These data points allowed us to focus on a select few devices that were unique
among the thousands we saw. Additionally, these devices contained a minimal
amount of (if any) real content in the exfiltrated text messages, contacts, and
application data, which led us to conclude they were likely test devices.
Wi-Fi Networks
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Figure 1: A picture of the GDGS building in
Beirut, Lebanon from where we have located
Dark Caracal operating
Within the cluster of test devices we noticed what could be unique Wi-Fi networks. Knowing that Wi-Fi networks can be used for
location positioning, we used that data to geo-locate where these devices may have been by keying off network identifiers. We
specifically focused on the Wi-Fi network SSID Bld3F6 . Using the Wi-Fi geolocation service Wigle.net we saw these test device
Wi-Fi networks mapped to Beirut. We also noticed Wi-Fi networks with SSID Bld3F6 mapped near the General Security building
in Beirut, Lebanon.
Figure 2 : Google map of the GDGS Building in Beirut
Left: Data as observed from Wigle.net for SSID: Bld3F6 |  Right: Data confirming location of SSID: Bld3F6
5
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
Location Information from IP Addresses
Throughout the course of this investigation we observed logins into the administrative console of the C2 server come from three
IP addresses. The IP addresses are all from Ogero Telecom [6], which is owned by the Government of Lebanon. We geo-located two
of the IP addresses just south of the GDGS’s building (probably a switching or central hub for Ogero).
Figure 3: The location of IP addresses that logged into the adobeair[.]net admin console between July and September 2017
6 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telecommunications_in_Lebanon
6
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT