Gamaredon
Gamaredon is a Russian APT that primarily performs cyber espionage operations against Ukrainian military forces,
as well as individuals related to the Ukrainian government. Gamaredon has been active since 2013 and often uses
spear phishing as its initial infection vector.
Between March 23 and 25, Gamaredon sent phishing emails using the COVID-19 theme and employed remote
template injection within their lure, a Microsoft Word document written in Russian. (Figure 8).
Upon opening the document, a remote template is
dropped from the link provided in the XML setting
(Figure 9).
We were not able to retrieve this template at time of
publishing, but found other similar templates used by
this APT days before this campaign and realized they
are using similar malicious macros. Figure 10 shows an
example of such a macro.
Instead of executing the malicious behavior upon
opening the document (using the “auto_open” function),
the malicious macro in this document is executed in
the “Document_close” function. This could be to bypass
dynamic analysis if the document is not closed before
the sandbox times out.
The macro collects the computer name, home drive’s
label/serial number, and BIOS information (using WMI)
and sends it to a hardcoded C2 server with this format:
http://Server/ComputerName_DriveSerialNumber/
BiosVersionInfo
Figure 9: Template injection
Figure 8: Lure document
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 8
It then creates a VBS script in the %APPDATA% directory and makes it persistent by copying it into the startup
directory. In addition to the mentioned items, the script also collects keyboard layout and country code and checks
whether Process explorer or Wireshark are running on the system.
Figure 10: Macro embedded in template
The APT group then drops its custom backdoor “Pterodo” that is capable of downloading other malware variants
and collecting sensitive information [3] .
APTs and COVID-19: How advanced persistent threats use the coronavirus as a lure 9