The labyrinth: How attribution could be wrong
Digital forensic investigations should
ideally answer the five Ws (who, what,
where, when and why) and one H (How)
questions. However, challenges related
to the availability and granularity of
detail in evidentiary data can leave
many questions unanswered.
Cyberattack attribution in particular
is meant to address the “Who” and
“Why” questions. Investigators focus
on threat actor TTPs, consult cyber
threat intelligence reports and review
IoCs to root out perpetrators and
mount a defense.
However, IoCs such as IP addresses,
domain names, file names, malware
behavior and binary code sections
can be misleading. Consequently,
investigators shouldn’t rely only on
these to make a cyberattack attribution.
The current geopolitical climate,
recent pandemic and heightened
trade tensions provide a conducive
environment for cyberattack
misattribution. This is especially true for
Cyber-Espionage attacks that typically
involve tactics such as leveraging
covert TTPs and “false flags.” Threat
actors associated with these attacks
are attempting to thwart detection and
response efforts, as well as conceal
attack attribution for political and
national security purposes.
On top of that, Tor (The Onion
Router) networks, the dark web,
business infrastructures that lack
security, and privacy legislations in
certain countries further complicate
attribution. Using cryptocurrencies
(especially altcoins, such as Monero,
offering anonymity) or services, such
as coin mixers, makes tracing the
origin of attacks more difficult.
Another very important obstacle is the
extreme difficulty of prosecuting crossborder cybercriminals, which nationstate actors inherently protect. The lack
of local legal statutes, regulations or
reliable evidence lessens deterrence
and may even motivate threat actors.
Finally, it should be noted that
attribution is a multidimensional
challenge. Attribution—aside from
forensic evidence—depends on
various types of intelligence, including
forensics evidence; Technical
Intelligence (TECHINT); Human
Intelligence (HUMINT); Signals
Intelligence (SIGINT); Open Source
Intelligence (OSINT); and adversarial
tradecraft (i.e., TTPs), infrastructure
and intent. All dimensions must align
for sound and reliable attribution.
23 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report