Background
Serious zero-day vulnerabilities, which are exploited in the wild and affect a widely used piece of software, are
relatively rare; there were approximately eight in 2011. The past few months however has seen four such zero-
day vulnerabilities actively exploited in the wild. Two of the zero-day exploits were in Adobe Flash, the other two
in Internet Explorer.
In April 2012, we identified seven different Trojans that were being used in conjunction with CVE-2012-0779.
Within one month, two more zero-day exploits were identified in the wild. These were CVE-2012-1875 and CVE2012-1889. The timing of the release of these three exploits was suspicious. As soon as one had been identified,
the next became active. We investigated the three exploits and found connections between them all. In the past
few weeks, yet another zero-day exploit was detected in the wild, CVE-2012-1535. We have tied this zero-day
exploit back to all the others. They may only be the tip of the iceberg.
In early 2010, Google documented an attack against their infrastructure. They stated that they were attacked
in December 2009 and that the attacks originated in China. The attackers utilized a Trojan called Hydraq, (also
known as Aurora), which was delivered using an Internet Explorer zero-day exploit. We believe the Hydraq attack
and the recent Figure 1
attacks that exploit Timeline of zero-day exploits attributable to the one group
the vulnerabilities
outlined above are
linked.
In March 2011, at
least two Adobe
Flash zero-day
attacks were
utilized in similar
attacks against
the same types
of victims. In
September 2011,
yet another Adobe
Flash zero-day
exploit was used
to attack visitors to the Amnesty International Hong Kong site. The very same website was again compromised
in the most recent set of attacks. Our analysis shows that a single group has been using these zero-day exploits,
along with others over the past couple of years, in targeted attacks against individuals, companies, governments,
and even entire sectors. A timeline for these various zero-day exploits is shown in Figure 1.
The attacks conducted by this group are carried out using several different techniques.
One of the methods used, called a watering hole attack, shown in figure 2, is a clear shift in their method of
operations. The concept of the attack is similar to a predator waiting at a watering hole in a desert. The predator
knows that victims will eventually have to come to the watering hole, so rather than go hunting, he waits for
his victims to come to him. Similarly, attackers find a Web site that caters to a particular audience in which the
attackers are interested. For example, people who visit the Amnesty International Hong Kong website are most
Figure 2
Web injection process used in watering hole attacks
likely visiting because they are interested in human rights issues in Hong Kong. Having identified this website,
the attackers hack into it using a variety of means. For example, the site may be vulnerable to a SQL injection,
or perhaps the attackers compromise the machine of an individual with publishing rights to the website. The
attackers then inject an exploit onto public pages of the website that are hopefully visited by their ultimate
target. Any visitor susceptible to the exploit is compromised and a back door Trojan is installed onto their
computer. The attacker then has complete control over the victim’s computer.
Three of the most recent zero-day exploits were used in watering hole attacks, an indication that this approach is
gaining momentum.
The more traditional technique is to send a “spear-phishing” email, containing an attachment, to the target.
That attachment is a document containing an exploit which, when opened, then drops a Trojan onto the target
computer. This works if the exploit is embeddable in a document. If not, then an alternative approach is to
host the exploit on a Web server and then email the target with a link to that Web server. The link used is quite
unique, it is not hosted on a common Web site, so it will only be encountered by the chosen target. When the
target clicks on the link, the exploit is triggered and a back door is installed.
The Elderwood gang has shown their resourcefulness over the past few years by leveraging a large number of
zero-day vulnerabilities. The full list of vulnerabilities is shown below.
|Table 1Zero-day vulnerabilities associated with the Elderwood gang|Col2|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|CVE2012-0779|BID53395|DescriptionObject Type Confusion Remote Code Execution Vulnerability|ApplicationAdobe Flash Player|
|2012-1875|53847|Same ID Property Remote Code Execution Vulnerability|Microsoft Internet Explorer|
|2012-1889|53934|Remote Code Execution Vulnerability|Microsoft XML Core Services|
|2012-1535|55009|Remote Code Execution Vulnerability|Adobe Flash Player|
|2011-0609|46860|'SWF' File Remote Memory Corruption Vulnerability|Adobe Flash Player|
|2011-0611|47314|'SWF' File Remote Memory Corruption Vulnerability|Adobe Flash Player|
|2011-2110|48268|Adobe Flash Player Remote Memory Corruption Vulnerability|Adobe Flash Player|
|2010-0249|37815|'srcElement()' Remote Code Execution Vulnerability|Internet Explorer|
We have analyzed four of the most recent exploits (CVE-2012-0779, CVE-2012-1875, CVE-2012-1889, and
CVE-2012-1535) and their associated malicious documents, the Trojans, and the infrastructure utilized in the
attacks. There are several common features used in the attacks. Some of these features hint at the potential
infrastructure, or platform, developed to support these attacks. From this analysis we have identified an
increase in watering hole attacks by this group and developed a theory describing the possible infrastructure the
attackers are utilizing. We also describe the various targeted industry sectors and provide evidence that a single
gang is most likely to be behind the attacks.