Why Bitdefender
Proudly Serving Our Customers
Bitdefender provides solutions and services for small business and
medium enterprises, service providers and technology integrators. We take
pride in the trust that enterprises such as Mentor, Honeywell, Yamaha,
Speedway, Esurance or Safe Systems place in us.
Leader in Forrester’s inaugural Wave™ for Cloud Workload Security
NSS Labs “Recommended” Rating in the NSS Labs AEP Group Test
SC Media Industry Innovator Award for Hypervisor Introspection, 2nd Year in
a Row
Gartner® Representative Vendor of Cloud-Workload Protection Platforms
Dedicated To Our +20.000 Worldwide Partners
A channel-exclusive vendor, Bitdefender is proud to share success with tens of
thousands of resellers and distributors worldwide.
CRN 5-Star Partner, 4th Year in a Row. Recognized on CRN’s Security 100 List. CRN Cloud
Partner, 2nd year in a Row
More MSP-integrated solutions than any other security vendor
3 Bitdefender Partner Programs - to enable all our partners – resellers, service providers
and hybrid partners – to focus on selling Bitdefender solutions that match their own
specializations
Trusted Security Authority
Bitdefender is a proud technology alliance partner to major virtualization vendors, directly contributing to the development of secure ecosystems with
VMware, Nutanix, Citrix, Linux Foundation, Microsoft, AWS, and Pivotal.
Through its leading forensics team, Bitdefender is also actively engaged in countering international cybercrime together with major law enforcement agencies
such as FBI and Europol, in initiatives such as NoMoreRansom and TechAccord, as well as the takedown of black markets such as Hansa. Starting in 2019,
Bitdefender is also a proudly appointed CVE Numbering Authority in MITRE Partnership.
RECOGNIZED BY LEADING ANALYSTS AND INDEPENDENT TESTING ORGANIZATIONS TECHNOLOGY ALLIANCES
UNDER THE SIGN OF THE WOLF
Founded 2001, Romania
Number of employees 1800+
Headquarters
Enterprise HQ – Santa Clara, CA, United States
Technology HQ – Bucharest, Romania
WORLDWIDE OFFICES
USA & Canada: Ft. Lauderdale, FL | Santa Clara, CA | San Antonio, TX |
Toronto, CA
Europe: Copenhagen, DENMARK | Paris, FRANCE | München, GERMANY
| Milan, ITALY | Bucharest, Iasi, Cluj, Timisoara, ROMANIA | Barcelona,
SPAIN | Dubai, UAE | London, UK | Hague, NETHERLANDS
Australia: Sydney, Melbourne
A trade of brilliance, data security is an industry where only the clearest view, sharpest mind and deepest insight can
win — a game with zero margin of error. Our job is to win every single time, one thousand times out of one thousand,
and one million times out of one million.
And we do. We outsmart the industry not only by having the clearest view, the sharpest mind and the deepest insight,
but by staying one step ahead of everybody else, be they black hats or fellow security experts. The brilliance of our
collective mind is like a luminous Dragon-Wolf on your side, powered by engineered intuition, created to guard against
all dangers hidden in the arcane intricacies of the digital realm.
This brilliance is our superpower and we put it at the core of all our game-changing products and solutions.