Shamoon/Disttrack
In August 2012 an extremely destructive cyberattack hit an estimated 30,000 computers at one of the largest oil
producers of the world in Saudi Arabia. The W32.Disttrack malware used in this attack, also known as Shamoon,
consists of three components: a dropper, a wiper and a reporter module.
The dropper component is responsible for creating all the required files on the system, registering a service
called “TrkSvr” in order to start itself with Windows. It also attempts to copy itself to accessible network shares
and execute itself remotely if successfully copied.
The wiper component is only activated when a hardcoded configuration date has been passed. This enables a
coordinated, “time bomb” scenario. The module then drops a legitimate and digitally signed device driver that
provides low level disk access from user space. The malware collects file names and starts overwriting them
with a JPEG image or 192KB blocks of random data. At the end Disttrack finishes the computer off by wiping the
master boot record with the same data.
The reporter component is responsible for sending back a HTTP GET request to the C&C server. It reports the
domain name, IP address and number of files overwritten.
By acquiring user credentials and gaining access to the domain controller the attackers were able to push the
malware on to many systems before they triggered the destructive payload. Disttrack’s secondary goal may have
been to steal valuable information from infected computers, but the main intent was to render the computers
unusable by wiping the operating system and master boot record, causing disruption and downtime at the
targeted company. Although wiping is also frequently used to destroy evidence of the attack and make forensics
more difficult. The malware does not contain any payload against ICS, like Stuxnet does for PLCs, and is not as
sophisticated. According to the company, no computer related with the production or distribution of oil was
affected, since the operational network is separated and specially protected.
One group that claimed responsibility for the attack posted on Pastebin that it was an anti-oppression hacker
group. The attack was prompted by disappointment with some of the regimes in the Middle East, the group said.
True or not, this shows that it is not necessarily only state-sponsored attackers who are carrying out disruptive
attacks. Sabotage attacks usually fall into the orbit of hacktivists, who seek attention rather than profit. Some
sources reported that the attackers had help from insiders, which would explain the so far unclear infection
vector.
Soon after this attack became known, a Qatari gas company was attacked in a similar way.
Page 12
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector