F5 BIG-IP – The Perfect Place to Hide
F5 BIG-IP appliances occupy a trusted position within the network architecture, often placed at the
perimeter or between different network segments. By compromising such a device, attackers can exert
significant control over network traffic without arousing suspicion. Moreover, while organizations
frequently gather logs from network devices, their attention is predominantly directed towards
application-level logs such as traffic records and alerts. Unfortunately, operating system logs are often
overlooked, either due to vendor constraints or a lack of recognition regarding their significance. As a
result, a backdoor hidden within the F5 appliance can evade detection from traditional log monitoring
solutions.
The compromised organization had two F5 BIG-IP appliances which provided services such as firewall,
WAF, load balancing and local traffic management. These appliances were directly exposed to the
internet, and both of which were compromised.
Both F5 appliances were running an outdated, vulnerable, operating system. The threat actor may have
leveraged one of the vulnerabilities to gain remote access to the appliances. However, visibility
limitations hinder the ability to identify exactly how the appliances were compromised.​
Forensic investigation of the appliances revealed a reverse SSH tunnel connection to the same C&C IP
address that was previously blocked on the corporate firewalls during the eradication efforts. Since the
appliances were not located behind the main corporate firewall, the traffic was not blocked.
Figure 9: Snippet showing the output of a ‘ps’ command executed on one of the F5 appliances.
The threat actor created a reverse SSH tunnel to the C&C with a user named ‘leo’.
Analyzing the active network connections on the F5, an established connection was observed between
the appliance and the file server, on the port PlugX was listening on. This complemented the analysis
made on the file server itself (see figure 8).
Figure 10: Snippet from an output of ‘netstat’ command executed on the F5 appliance, showing
the connection to the file server.
Figure 11: Snippet extracted from Wireshark, showing that the traffic transmitted from the F5
appliances was sent to port 13742 of the file server. This is the port that PlugX was listening on
in this server.
Pivoting From the F5 Appliance
The figure below depicts the stages of the threat actor’s working flow.
(1) The malware running on the device polls the C&C server once an hour. After connecting to the C&C
server (2), the threat actor sends commands to the compromised appliance, including for the creation
of a reverse SSH tunnel (3). Once the tunnel with the appliance is established, the threat actor
https://www.sygnia.co/blog/china-nexus-threat-group-velvet-ant/ 7/17
6/25/24, 3:03 PM In-Depth Analysis: Velvet Ant's Prolonged Cyber Attack on a Large Organization
connects to the file server that is infected with PlugX (4).
The PlugX instance on the compromised file server was used by the threat actor as an internal C&C
server. From this server, the threat actor conducted reconnaissance activities, deployed additional
instances of the PlugX onto legacy servers by leveraging Impacket’s WmiExec (5).
Figure 12: Diagram showing how the F5 appliance was leveraged by the threat actor as a
persistent beachhead, utilized to move laterally and execute remote commands on different
servers.
Recording the traffic between the F5 appliance and the file server revealed additional details about the
threat actor’s TTPs, as the traffic was sent over SMB, and was not encrypted. The following figures
show the interactive activities conducted by the threat actor prior to deploying additional PlugX
instances.
The threat actor’s first step was to enumerate the active network connections on the targeted server:
Figure 13: Snippet extracted from Wireshark, showing that the threat actor enumerated the
active network connections before moving laterally to additional servers.
After selecting a new server for PlugX deployment, the threat actor listed files in different folders,
presumably in order to choose where to deploy the malware.
https://www.sygnia.co/blog/china-nexus-threat-group-velvet-ant/ 8/17
6/25/24, 3:03 PM In-Depth Analysis: Velvet Ant's Prolonged Cyber Attack on a Large Organization
Figure 14: Snippet from Wireshark showing how the threat actor enumerated additional legacy
systems within the network by executing commands through WmiExec.
The threat actor then chose a folder, and leveraged WmiExec to transfer PlugX over SMB from the file
server to the target server.
Figure 15: Snippet from Wireshark showing the iviewers PlugX variant being sent over SMB
and saved into the ‘C:\tools\’ folder.
Additional Malware on the F5 Appliances
Forensic analysis of the F5 appliances identified four binaries deployed by the threat actor:

VELVETSTING – a tool that connects to the threat actor’s C&C once an hour, searching

commands to execute. The threat actor used the IP address 202.61.136[.]158:8443 as a C&C
and the commands were encoded with the passphrase ‘1qaz@WSXedc’. Once the tool received
a command, it was executed via ‘csh’ (Unix C shell).
https://www.sygnia.co/blog/china-nexus-threat-group-velvet-ant/ 9/17
6/25/24, 3:03 PM In-Depth Analysis: Velvet Ant's Prolonged Cyber Attack on a Large Organization
Figure 16: Snippet showing the output of the ‘strace’ command, which monitored the
‘VELVETSTING’ process. The malware tried to connect to the C&C server on port 8443 every
3600 seconds (1 hour). Once the connection was successful, the malware created a child
process based on the commands it received from the C&C.

VELVETTAP – a tool with the ability to capture network packets. The binary was executed on the

F5 appliance with the argument ‘mgmt’, which is the name of the internal NIC of the F5 device.
Figure 17: Snippet from an output of ‘ifconfig’ command, showing the ‘mgmt’ network interface
on the F5 appliance.
To maintain persistence on the F5 appliance, the threat actor added both VELVETSTING and
VELVETTAP to the ‘/etc/rc.local’ file. ‘rc.local’ is executed as part of the system’s startup process, which
means that any commands or scripts listed in it will be executed automatically whenever the system
boots up.
Figure 18: Snippet showing that the paths for VELVETSTING and VELVETTAP were added to
the ‘/etc/rc.local’ file by the threat actor.
https://www.sygnia.co/blog/china-nexus-threat-group-velvet-ant/ 10/17
6/25/24, 3:03 PM In-Depth Analysis: Velvet Ant's Prolonged Cyber Attack on a Large Organization

SAMRID – identified as ‘EarthWorm’, an open-source SOCKS proxy tunneller available on

GitHub. The tool was utilized in the past by different Chinese state-sponsored groups, such as
‘Volt Typhoon’, ‘APT27’ and ‘Gelsemium’. The tool was not running on the device at the time of
investigation.

ESRDE – a tool with similar capabilities to that of ‘VELVETSTING’, but with minor differences,

such as using bash instead of ‘csh’. The tool was not running on the device at the time of
investigation.