COINMINER INSTALLATION AND PERSISTENCE
```
DLL INSTALLER
The next step was to find what was responsible for the persistence described above. We
had one more DLL with a unique hash, so now it was time to analyze it and try to answer
the question of persistence.
Despite its size of approximately 107kB, this DLL contained only a small portion of regular
functions. Most of the code were known library functions. The biggest one of the regular
WMI EVENT SUBSCRIPTION
During the process, our monitoring team noticed hits on our watchlist with the known
malicious hashes and filepaths. We saw the execution attempts of following command:

cmd.exe /c sc config wercplsupport start= auto & sc start wercplsupport
```
    & copy c:\windows\System32\checkservices.dll
    c:\windows\System32\wercplsupporte.dll /y & start regsvr32.exe /s
    c:\windows\System32\checkservices.dll

```
But this time, it seemed that it was caused by WMI. Further investigation revealed the
persistence was attributed to WMI Event Subscription. The attackers registered the Event
Filter with conditions related to the Local Time 20:10. They also registered the Consumer
which executed the above command. And lastly, there was registered Filter to Consumer
Binding present.
With that, one question was answered, but several new questions were raised. How did
they register the WMI persistence? What created the other scheduled tasks and services?
Digging deeper into the WMI-related artifacts, we found a .mof file (Managed Object
Format) with the definition of WMI Event Subscription. This file was parsed by compiler
mofcomp.exe and the defined classes and class instances were added to the WMI
To speed up the process of cleaning and because there were hundreds of infected
computers, we created and deployed the PowerShell script for the automation of cleaning
the malicious artifacts.
Suddenly, our monitoring team noticed something unusual... When we executed our
script, the PowerShell process spawned the cmd.exe process which then spawned the
schtasks.exe and tried to create scheduled tasks with persistence of CoinMiner.
Our first suspicion was about process injection – either injection of remote thread or DLL
hijacking, or some of the other known and documented techniques.
During the investigation of this behavior, we used the SysInternals Process Monitor tool
and it captured the events of querying the Registry values related to the malicious CLSID,
followed by loading library – the DLL file with the “unique” hash. The DLL file we already
analyzed and described as the installer.
Figure 17. Loading the malicious DLL observed in Process Monitor
Figure 18. Excerpt from the installation batch file rn.bat
Together with the rn.bat, we found the batch file called set.bat as well. The purpose of
the set.bat was to extract the “installation” package either in the file set.zip or set.zip.tmp
placed in C:\ProgramData directory and via let.exe program which executed the rn.bat
file. Then the set.bat deleted the extracted content of the package as well as itself.
Figure 19. The extraction batch file set.bat
While most of its content was pretty clear, the purpose of the let.exe program may not
be very obvious for people without experience in pentesting and ethical hacking.
On the other hand, when an experienced pentester saw the commandline arguments of
via cmd.exe, in a very similar manner. Thus, the payload of CVE-2019-18935 exploit and
this “nwgold” dll share non neglected portions of code, especially the parts for the
execution of the malicious activity. There are three possible explanations:
Authors of CVE-2019-18935 exploit and “nwgold” DLL are same,
Authors of “nwgold” DLL inspired themselves from the open source CVE-2019
18935 exploit,
The functionality of both DLLs is so simple and straightforward, that it is only a
coincidence.
Figure 22. DllMain function.
“nwgold” on the left, CVE-2019-18935 payload on the right
Figure 24. Construction of set.bat’s content