5.7 Defining success
Measuring success in cybersecurity has always
been challenging. In fact, the lack of effective,
widely accepted performance metrics has hindered
the field’s development since its inception.
Nevertheless, tracking progress is necessary to
correct or adjust courses of action and report on
successes (or shortcomings). In addition, what
constitutes success varies over time: activities that
are beneficial or necessary in the short term may
be insufficient in the long run. Therefore, identifying
metrics on which to focus over the short, medium
and long terms is recommended.
In the short term (1 year), success would be
measured by the ability to convene the community
for action and create the conditions for cooperation.
This step will lay the foundation for taking action.
To succeed in this effort, it is necessary to gather
stakeholders in constructive and iterative dialogues
and interactions, bridging the public-private,
operational-policy and geopolitical gaps. One
simple way to gauge success is by the number of
stakeholders embracing the shared narrative and
the principles for public-private cooperation.
In the medium term (2-3 years), success would
be measured by the number of concrete and
successful collaborative actions taken by the
Permanent Nodes against cybercrime. This metric
advisories and arrests. However, a Threat Focus
Cell’s aim could also be to scout a new threat.
Identifying and arresting cybercriminals can be
part of a lengthy process and are subject to
considerations outside a cell’s control. Thus, a longterm prosecution goal should not prevent the cell
from taking other actions to protect customers and
the public. However, each cell would strive to help
law enforcement agencies obtain the information
and technical assistance needed to prosecute
those responsible for criminal activity.
Collaboration methods: Initial or periodic in-person
meetings might be required to build trust, share
sensitive information, establish roles, and set goals
and timetables. The Threat Focus Cells would likely
need to operate using remote communication. The
sponsoring Permanent Node would provide the
infrastructure and facilities to support this virtual work.
Operational rules: Although the Threat Focus
Cells’ rules would vary, a few would be common to
all cells to promote efficiency and interoperability.
The providing organization should clearly indicate
handling requirements on shared information, for
example, and the participants would agree to abide
by those requirements. Additionally, participants
should agree not to take unilateral action prior to the
cell’s culminating operation and to immediately raise
any concerns to the Threat Focus Cell’s leadership.
should reflect the specific threats tackled – in
joint actions or actions supported by different
stakeholders. In addition, it would be necessary to
advocate for the policy processes that are needed
to ensure successful and sustainable cooperation.
Success does not necessarily mean a reduction
of policy barriers, but the promotion of relevant
solutions.
In the long term, the goal is to reduce cybercrime to
an economically sustainable level. But determining
whether the initiative has achieved this level of
impact will not be easy. Simple percentages are
impossible to calculate since the total amount of
cybercrime in the world is not only unknown but
is unquantifiable. As a result, gauging success will
require proxy indicators. Some indicators that would
point towards a decrease in overall cybercrime
include a decreasing number of reported incidents;
lower estimates for the economic impact of
cybercrime; an increasing number and frequency of
disruptive actions, including arrests and prosecution
of cybercriminals; and a decreasing price for
criminal services (due to decreased demand) and
an increasing price for others (due to increased
risk). One of the key tasks in its first few years
would be to identify the most relevant, measurable
and verifiable proxy indicators and determine how
to track them over time.
Partnership against Cybercrime 26