Chinese-speaking activity
We found an active campaign by a Chinese APT group we call SixLittleMonkeys that uses a new
version of the Microcin Trojan and a RAT that we call HawkEye as a last stager. The campaign
mainly targets government bodies in Central Asia. For persistence, the operators use .DLL search
order hijacking. This consists of using a custom decryptor with a system library name (e.g.,
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ version.dll or api-ms-win-core-fibers-l1-1-1.dll) in directories, along with the legitimate applications 3/8
that load these libraries into memory. Among other legitimate applications, the threat actor uses
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
the Google updater, GoogleCrashHandler.exe, for .DLL hijacking. Custom encryptors protect the
next stagers from detection on disk and from automated analysis, using the same encryption keys
in different samples. For secure TLS communication with its C2, the malware uses the Secure
Channel (Schannel) Windows security package.
ESET discovered that the attackers behind the Plead malware have been distributing it using
compromised routers and man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks in April. Researchers have detected
this activity in Taiwan, where the Plead malware has been most actively deployed. Trend Micro
has previously reported the use of this malware in targeted attacks by the BlackTech group,
primarily focused on cyber-espionage in Asia. ESET telemetry has revealed multiple attempts to
deploy it.
LuckyMouse activity detected by Palo Alto involved the attackers installing web shells on
SharePoint servers to compromise government organizations in the Middle East, probably
exploiting CVE-2019-0604, a remote code execution vulnerability used to compromise the server
and eventually install a web shell. The actors uploaded a variety of tools that they used to perform
additional activities on the compromised network, such as dumping credentials, as well as
locating and pivoting to additional systems on the network. Of particular note is the group’s use of
tools to identify systems vulnerable to CVE-2017-0144, the vulnerability exploited by EternalBlue
and used in the 2017 WannaCry attacks. This activity appears to be related to campaigns
exploiting CVE-2019-0604 mentioned in recent security alerts from the Saudi Arabian National
Cyber Security Center and the Canadian Center for Cyber Security.
Last year, a number of Chinese hackers allegedly linked to the Chinese government were indicted
in the US. In May, the US Department of Justice indicted a Chinese national for a series of
computer intrusions, including the 2015 data breach of health insurance company Anthem which
affected more than 78 million people.