A Word of Warning
The analytical waters surrounding cyber warfare are inherently murky. At the strategic level,
governments desire to have a degree of plausible deniability. At the tactical level, military and
intelligence organizations envelop such operations in layers of classification and secrecy. To be
effective, information operations rely on deception—and the Internet offers an ideal venue for
a spy’s smoke and mirrors. In practical terms, hackers often run their attacks through cyber terrain
(such as compromised, third-party networks) that present investigators with technical and jurisdictional
complications. And finally, cybercriminal tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) evolve so quickly that
cyber defense, legislation, and law enforcement remain behind the attacker’s curve.
“The biggest challenge to deterring, defending against, or retaliating for cyber attacks is the problem
of correctly identifying the perpetrator,” said Prof. John Arquilla, Naval Postgraduate School in an email
interview with FireEye. [®] “Ballistic missiles come with return addresses. But computer viruses, worms, and
denial of service attacks often emanate from behind a veil of anonymity. The best chance to pierce
this veil comes with the skillful blending of forensic back-hacking techniques with deep knowledge of
others’ strategic cultures and their geopolitical aims.”
Cyber “attribution”—identifying a likely culprit, whether an individual, organization, or nation-state—is
notoriously difficult, especially for any single attack. States are often mistakenly identified as non-state
actors, and vice versa. To make matters worse, ties between the two are increasing. First, a growing
number of “patriotic cybercriminals” ostensibly wage cyber war on behalf of governments (examples
include Chechnya and Kosovo in the 1990s, China in 2001, Estonia in 2007, Georgia in 2008, and every
year in the Middle East). [1] Second, cybercrime organizations offer anyone, including governments, cyber
attack services to include denial-of-service attacks and access to previously compromised networks.
FireEye researchers have even seen one nation-state develop and use a sophisticated Trojan, and later
(after its own counter-Trojan defenses were in place) sell it to cybercriminals on the black market. Thus,
some cyber attack campaigns may bear the hallmarks of both state and non-state actors, making
positive attribution almost impossible. And finally, “false flag” cyber operations involve a hacker group
behaving like another to mislead cyber defense researchers.