Middle East
As a region, the Middle East may not possess the arsenal of zero-day exploits available in Russia, or
the brute-force numbers of China. Therefore, some Middle Eastern hackers may have to rely on cyber
tactics that emphasize novelty, creativity, and deception.
For example, the 2012 Mahdi campaign, which infected targets in the Middle East, used malicious
Word documents, PowerPoint files, and PDFs to infect targets. That approach is similar to many other
attackers. But these attacks were accompanied by some imaginative elements such as games,
attractive images, and custom animations specifically designed to aid in the attack.
Not only did they trick users into executing commands to install malicious code, but they also distracted
users from seeing malware-related warning messages. Furthermore, Mahdi attacks were tailored to
specific target audiences—for example by offering variations of games unique to each organization.
Such pinpoint strikes rely on prior reconnaissance, help to evade cyber defense behavioral-detection
mechanisms, and dramatically increase the odds of compromise. So in the Middle East, the relative
sophistication of an attack may be calculated less in the technology, and more in the clever ways in
which malware is delivered and installed on a target network.
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 13
|Reconnaissance|Regional Mailing Lists, Conferences|
|---|---|
|Weaponization|Malicious PPT/PPS Files|
|Delivery|Weaponized Email Attachments|
|Exploitation|Social Engineering Mouse Clicks on Screen|
|Installation|Primitive Collection of Custom Tools / RAT(Requires Operator For Lateral Movement)|
|Command andControl (C2)|Plain HTTP; Hiding in Plain Sight|
|Actions on Objectives|Intelligence Gathering (Middle East Focused),Denial of Service|
|TTP Exemplars|Madi, LV|
Table 3: Characteristics of
Middle Eastern cyber attacks
Iran: a “hot” cyber war
Wherever significant activity erupts in the real world (including crime, espionage, and warfare), parallel
activity unfolds in cyberspace. It is therefore unsurprising that Iran—which has tense international
relations and is on the verge of acquiring a nuclear bomb—has also experienced the most
sophisticated cyber attacks to date.
In 2010, Stuxnet was a “cyber missile” of sorts designed with painstaking precision to burrow deep
into Iran’s nuclear program and destroy physical infrastructure. To some degree, this piece of software
replaced a squadron of fighter aircraft that would have violated foreign airspace, dropped laserguided bombs, and left a smoking crater in the Earth’s surface. [52] Beyond Stuxnet, other advanced
espionage attacks have worried security experts, including Duqu, Flame, and Gauss, which all may
have come from the same threat actor. [53] And even amateurs are successfully targeting Iran; although
the “Mahdi” malware is by comparison far less sophisticated than Stuxnet and its cousins, Mahdi has
still managed to compromise engineering firms, government agencies, financial services firms, and
academia throughout the Middle East. [54]
52 Sanger, D. Confront and Conceal. (New York: 2012) pp. 188-225.
53 Boldizsár Bencsáth. “Duqu, Flame, Gauss: Followers of Stuxnet,” BME CrySyS Lab, RSA 2012.
54 Simonite, T. (31 Aug 2012) “Bungling Cyber Spy Stalks Iran,” MIT Technology Review .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 14
So how does anyone, including a nation-state, respond to a cyber attack? Does the counterstrike
remain within the cyber realm, or can it come in the form of a traditional military (or terrorist) assault? In
2012, Iran appears to have chosen the first option. A hacker group called the “Cutting Sword of Justice”
used the “Shamoon” virus to attack the Saudi Arabian national oil company Aramco, deleting data on
three-quarters of Aramco’s corporate PCs (including documents, spreadsheets, e-mails, and files) and
replacing them with an image of a burning American flag. [55] And over the past year, another group
called Izz ad-Din al-Qassam launched “Operation Ababil,” a series of DDoS attacks against many U.S.
financial institutions including the New York Stock Exchange. [56]
Other examples of cyber attacks abound. In 2009, the plans for a new U.S. Marine Corps 1 presidential
helicopter were found on a file-sharing network in Iran. [57] In 2010, the “Iranian Cyber Army” disrupted
Twitter and the Chinese search engine Baidu, redirecting users to Iranian political messages. [58] In 2011,
Iranian attackers compromised a Dutch digital certificate authority, after which it issued more than
500 fraudulent certificates for major companies and government agencies. [59] In 2012, Iran disrupted
the BBC’s Persian Language Service, and University of Toronto researchers reported that some versions
of the Simurgh “proxy” software (which is popular in countries like Iran and anonymizes Internet traffic)
also installed a Trojan that collected usernames and keystrokes, sending them to a likely intelligence
collection site. [60] Finally, in 2013 the Wall Street Journal reported that Iranian actors had increased their
efforts to compromise U.S. critical infrastructure. [61]
Syria: what is the Syrian Electronic Army?
Syria is in the midst of a civil war, so researchers have a lot of cyber activity to analyze. The most
prominent hacker group by far is the Syrian Electronic Army (SEA), which is loyal to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad. SEA has conducted DDoS attacks, phishing, pro-Assad defacements, and spamming
campaigns against governments, online services, and media that are perceived to be hostile to
the Syrian government. SEA has hacked Al-Jazeera, Anonymous, Associated Press (AP), BBC, Daily
Telegraph, Financial Times, Guardian, Human Rights Watch, National Public Radio, The New York Times,
Twitter, and more. [62] Its most famous exploit was a hoax announcement using AP’s Twitter account that
the White House was bombed and President Obama injured—after which stock markets briefly dipped
to the tune of $200 billion. [63]
55 Perlroth, N. (23 Oct 2012) “In Cyberattack on Saudi Firm, U.S. Sees Iran Firing Back,” The New York Times .
56 Walker, D. (8 Mar 2013) “Hacktivists plan to resume DDoS campaign against U.S. banks,” SC Magazine .
57 Borak, D. (3 Mar 2009) “Source in Iran views Marine One blueprints,” Marine Corps Times .
58 Wai-yin Kwok, V. (13 Jan 2010) “Baidu Hijacked By Cyber Army,” Forbes.
59 Charette, R. (9 Sep 2011) “DigiNotar Certificate Authority Breach Crashes e-Government in the Netherlands,” IEEE Spectrum .
60 “Iranian anti-censorship software ‘Simurgh’ circulated with malicious backdoor,” (25 May 2012) Citizenlab.
61 Gorman, S. & Yadron, D. (23 May 2013) “Iran Hacks Energy Firms, U.S. Says,” Wall Street Journal .
62 Fisher, M. & Keller, J. (31 Aug 2011) “Syria’s Digital Counter-Revolutionaries.” The Atlantic ; “Syrian Electronic Army,”
(accessed 25 July, 2013) Wikipedia .
63 Manzoor, S. (25 July, 2013) “Slaves to the algorithm: Are stock market math geniuses, or quants, a force for good?” The Sunday Telegraph .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 15
In the month of July 2013 alone, SEA compromised three widely used online communications websites:
Truecaller (the world’s largest telephone directory), [64] Tango (a video and text messaging service), [65] and
Viber (a free online calling and messaging application). [66] These types of compromises are significant
because they can give Syrian intelligence access to the communications of millions of people, including
political activists within Syria who might then be targeted for espionage, intimidation, and arrest.
To compromise its targets, the SEA often sends socially engineered, spear-phishing emails to lure
opposition activists into opening fraudulent, weaponized, and malicious documents. If the recipient falls
for the scam, Trojan horse, remote access tool (RAT) software is installed on the victim’s computer that
can give the attacker keystrokes, screenshots, microphone and webcam recordings, stolen documents,
and passwords. And of course, the SEA likely sends all of this information to a computer address lying
within Syrian government-controlled Internet Protocol (IP) space for intelligence collection and review. [67]
Israel: old conflict, new tactics
Even during the Cold War, the Arab-Israeli conflict saw many hot wars, and it was often the testing
ground for new military weapons and tactics. Nothing has changed in the Internet era. Since at least
2000, pro-Israeli hackers have targeted sites of political and military significance in the Middle East. [68]
In 2007, Israel reportedly disrupted Syrian air defense networks via cyber attack (with some collateral
damage to its own domestic networks) to facilitate the Israeli Air Force’s destruction of an alleged
Syrian nuclear facility. [69]
64 Khare, A. (19 July 2013) “Syrian Electronic Army Hacks Truecaller Database, Gains Access Codes to Social Media Accounts.” iDigital Times .
65 Kastrenakes, J. (22 July 2013) “Syrian Electronic Army alleges stealing ‘millions’ of phone numbers from chat app Tango.”
The Verge; Albanesius, C. (23 July 2013) “Tango Messaging App Targeted by Syrian Electronic Army.” PCMag .
66 Ashford, W. (24 July 2013) “Syrian hacktvists hit second mobile app in a week.” Computer Weekly .
67 Tsukayama, H. (28 Aug 2013) “Attacks like the one against the New York Times should put consumers on alert,” The Washington Post .
68 Geers K. (2008) “Cyberspace and the Changing Nature of Warfare,” Hakin9 E-Book, 19(3) No. 6; SC Magazine (27 AUG 08) 1-12.
69 Carroll, W. (26 Nov 2007) “Israel’s Cyber Shot at Syria,” Defense Tech .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 16
But as an advanced industrial nation, Israel also depends on information technology. The nation has
proven to be vulnerable to cyber attacks, which often target the Israeli economy. In 2009, during Israel’s
military operation in Gaza, hackers briefly paralyzed many government sites with a DDoS attack from at
least 500,000 computers. The 2009 attack consisted of four independent waves, each stronger than the
last, peaking at 15 million junk mail deliveries per second. The Israeli “Home Front Command” website,
which plays a key role in national defense communications with the public, was down for three hours.
Due to technical similarities with the 2008 cyber attack on Georgia during its war with Russia, Israeli
officials surmised that the attack itself might have been carried out by a criminal organization in the
former Soviet Union, and paid for by Hamas or Hezbollah. [70]
Often, the trouble with cyber attacks is that they do not need to be highly sophisticated to succeed,
even against security-conscious Israel. In 2012, the ineptly written [71] “Mahdi” malware compromised at
least 54 targets in Israel. [72] Last but not least, in 2013, the Iranian media reported that the Syrian army had
carried out a cyber attack against the water supply of the Israeli city of Haifa. Prof. Isaac Ben-Israel, a
cyber security adviser to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said that the report was false, but added
that cyber attacks on critical infrastructures pose a “real and present threat” to Israel. [73]