Middle East
BlackShadow is a threat group that became known after exfiltrating sensitive documents
from Shirbit, an Israeli insurance company, and demanding a ransom in exchange for not
releasing the information in its possession. Since then, the group has made more
headlines, breaching another company in Israel and publishing a trove of documents
containing customer related information on Telegram. Following this, we found several
samples of the group’s unique .NET backdoor in our telemetry that were formerly
unknown to us, one of which was recently detected in Saudi Arabia. By pivoting on new
infrastructure indicators that we observed in those samples, we were able to find a
particular C2 server that was contacted by a malicious Android implant and shows ties to
the group’s activity.
We previously covered a WildPressure campaign against targets in the Middle East .
Keeping track of the threat actor’s malware this spring, we were able to find a newer
version (1.6.1) of their C++ Trojan, a corresponding VBScript variant with the same
version and a completely new set of modules, including an orchestrator and three plugins.
This confirms our previous assumption that there are more last-stagers besides the C++
ones, based on one of the fields in the C2 communication protocol which contains the
“client” programming language. Another language used by WildPressure is Python. The
PyInstaller module for Windows contains a script named “Guard”. Perhaps the most
interesting finding here is that this malware was developed for both Windows and macOS
operating systems. In this case, the hardcoded version is 2.2.1. The coding style, overall
design and C2 communication protocol is quite recognisable across all programming
languages used by the attackers. The malware used by WildPressure is still under active
development in terms of versions and programming languages in use. Although we could
not associate WildPressure’s activity with other threat actors, we did find minor
similarities in the TTPs (Tactics, Techniques and Procedures) used by BlackShadow,
which is also active in the same region. However, we consider that these similarities serve
as minor ties and are not enough to make any attribution.
We discovered an ongoing campaign that we attribute to an actor named WIRTE,
beginning in late 2019, targeting multiple sectors, focused on the Middle East. WIRTE is
a lesser-known threat actor first publicly referenced in 2019, which we suspect has
relations with the Gaza Cybergang threat actor group. During our hunting efforts, in
February, for threat actor groups that are using VBS/VBA implants, we came across MS
Excel droppers that use hidden spreadsheets and VBA macros to drop their first stage
implant – a VBS script. The VBS script’s main function is to collect system information
and execute arbitrary code sent by the attackers. Although we recently reported on a new
Muddywater first stage VBS implant used for reconnaissance and profiling activities,
these intrusion sets have slightly different TTPs and wider targeting. To date, we have
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 5/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
recorded victims focused in the Middle East and a few other countries outside this region.
Despite various industries being affected, the focus was mainly towards government and
diplomatic entities; however, we also noticed an unusual targeting of law firms.
GoldenJackal is the name we have given to a cluster of activity, recently discovered in our
telemetry, that has been active since November 2019. This intrusion set consists of a set
of .NET-based implants that are intended to control victim machines and exfiltrate
certain files from them, suggesting that the actor’s primary motivation is espionage.
Furthermore, the implants were found in a restricted set of machines associated with
diplomatic entities in the Middle East. Analysis of the aforementioned malware, as well as
the accompanied detection logs, portray a capable and moderately stealthy actor. This can
be substantiated by the successful foothold gained by the underlying actor in the few
organizations we came across, all the while keeping a low signature and ambiguous
footprint.