2005
In the 2005 book Study Guide for Information
Operations Theory, General Dai and his associ­
ates defined 400 IO-related terms, many related
to preemptive or reconnaissance activities. Only
computer network warfare is described here:
Computer network warfare is composed
of computer network reconnaissance,
computer network attacks, and computer
network defense. Operations mainly involve
the use of armed and equipped network war­
riors. The means of operations include vari­
ous types of viruses, logic bombs, and chip
weapons developed from computer technol­
ogy. Computer network warfare will act as
both a deterrent and a means of warfare,
and it can have a large and profound impact
upon the enemy’s politics, economics, and
military. It is also an important means of
battle for a less well-equipped military
against one with formidable strengths in
high technology. [27]
Dai also discussed the importance of the conduct
of warfare, focusing on information deterrence as a
concept to consider and develop further at the stra­
tegic level. Others who have written on the topic of
information deterrence include Shen Weiguang. The
book Science of Military Strategy devotes an entire
chapter to the topic. The latter source explains how
information deterrence (intimidating by demon­
strating one’s information power or might) can help
achieve national and military objectives. Deterrence
methods include information technology (hardware
and software innovations), information weapons
(discursive dissimulation or disinformation), and
information-resource suppression (analogous to
jamming). According to some Chinese authors,
counter-information deterrence theories must also
be considered.
C H I N A’ S C Y B E R WA R
In Warfare Strategy Theory (2005), Yao Youzhi
asserts that strategy has developed to the point
where technological considerations dominate and
the use of technology has become strategic. Any
strategy that distances itself from focusing on hightechnology weapons has no useful value, according
to Yao. This also means that China must develop
sound counterstrategies. [28] He writes:
It is necessary to be proficient at utilizing
the information superhighway, creating
misleading information, spreading the fog
of war, and jamming and destroying the
enemy’s strategic awareness, thereby using
strategy to control the adversary. It is nec­
essary to be proficient at using electronic
feints, electronic camouflage, electronic
jamming, virus attacks, and space satellite
jamming and deception, leading the enemy
to draw the wrong conclusion and attaining
the goal of strategic deception. [29]
While designed for wartime use, several of these
techniques work as peacetime preventive and pre­
emptive measures as well.
In “stovepipe” structured commands of the past,
a force calculated its strength by adding together
all of its parts. Today, a force’s combat strength is a
product of operational elements where information
technologies factor into a potentially exponential
multiplication. [30]
Yao writes that “informationized” warfare has
changed the traditional significance of “attack, cap­
ture, control, and defend” because precision attacks
have made possible the destruction of the enemy’s
entire war system. The primary attack target has
become an enemy force’s strategic information
system. All activities now revolve around gaining
battlefield supremacy, and information supremacy
is the foundation of battlefield supremacy. Directly
destroying an enemy’s will has supplanted the
annihilation of an enemy’s military capability.
This focus on information invites completely new
methods in future wars. [31]