Executive Summary
During September and October of 2016, the SpiderLabs team at Trustwave was consulted by several leading
organizations from the hospitality sector in Europe and the United States to analyze suspicious and potentially
malicious activity on their network including servers, point-of-sale terminals and client workstations that were spread
across different properties and locations.
The motivation of this operation appears to be financial gain, total control of the infrastructure and collection of
bots within the victim organizations. The forensics investigation and analysis indicates that these activities had
been performed by different individuals or different groups of people, leading us to conclude that several malicious
groups had cooperated in this operation with each group holding its own role and task. It soon became obvious that
we were dealing with organized crime responsible for establishing this complex system of network hosts and large
numbers of malicious files in order to perform the attacks against multiple victims.
The organizations under attack had been alerted either from their enterprise AV service that discovered pieces of
potentially malicious software or from suspicious indicators in Windows event logs. Since the victims were different
organizations the investigations were conducted by separate teams within Trustwave but intelligence sharing among
the teams proved that several similarities existed among the attacks.
The common successful entry point within all operations was an email message targeting the victim’s public-facing
services that contained a Microsoft Word document as an attachment. Once the attachment was opened multiple
malicious files were created or downloaded allowing the attackers to gain some level of access into the victim’s
infrastructure. In some cases, attackers actually called the victims over the phone, a social engineering vector, in
order to trick them into opening the attachments.
Next, several pass the hash techniques were performed to escalate privileges while persistence was achieved by
utilizing scheduled tasks and several of the operating system’s auto-start locations. Ultimately these actions allowed
the attackers to gain domain or even enterprise admin level access to the network using several resources as
Command & Control points in Europe and the US.
The attackers used cloud services such as Google Docs, Google Forms and Pastebin.com to keep track of infected
systems, spread malware and perform additional malicious activities. It is beneficial for attackers to incorporate
such services into an attacks since most enterprise networks allow access to these services and it is almost
impossible to blacklist them.
Malicious code used in these operations was split among memory resident code, scripting code (PowerShell,
JavaScript, VBS), executables (often variants of existing malware) and usage of customized versions of toolkits such
as Metasploit [1], PowerSploit [2] and Veil Framework [3].
The core tools used in these activities appear to comprise a variant of Anunak, remote backdoor, along with a Visual
Basic Script specially crafted with data exfiltration features.
Another significant finding is that some of the executables were signed using valid certificates from Comodo, a
Certification Authority. Based on the analysis of the certificates we believe that the attackers purchased and used
fake identities to bypass additional security controls.
This document describes what we believe to be a systematic criminal operation of attacks targeting the hospitality
sector in Europe and the US, at least at this time. However, the findings suggest that other sectors such as
e-commerce and retail are equally at risk and the campaign could just as easily spread to other parts of the world.
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
1
Operation Grand Mars: Defending Against Carbanak Cyber Attacks
The majority of IP addresses used as Command & Control points were unknown systems located within Europe (UK,
France, Sweden etc.) indicating that attackers were trying to bypass network security controls by using seemingly
innocuous servers as malicious endpoints. During the investigation of this operation we monitored access to these
C&C servers and found that the attackers would occasionally change their C&C server and take the previous one
off-line. We believe that this alternating use of C&C servers was a purposeful action by attackers in order to remain
as stealthy as possible.
We called this operation “Grand Mars” after the name that cyber criminals used in one of the digital certificates
purchased from Comodo. While the name and Russian details (city, address etc.) used in the certificate details are
probably fake, the fact that someone actually paid for these certificates is a strong indicator that we are dealing with
organized crime activities.
This Advanced Threat Report is intended to provide an analysis of this operation and document:
• Our analysis and findings in a way that describe the nature of malicious activities, the tactics and tradecraft
utilized by the attackers, possible motives and the attribution of the threat actors behind these attacks.
• Remediation actions and advice to organizations that have already been targeted by this campaign of attacks or
willing to take proactive countermeasures.
• Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) that will benefit organizations seeking to either undertake a compromise
assessment on their own (or with the help of a team that specializes in threat hunting and compromise
assessments such as Trustwave SpiderLabs), or to proactively put in place detection mechanisms for providing
an early warning system, if and when the organization is targeted.
However, it must be noted that this Advanced Threat Report does not and is not capable of replacing formal incident
response actions and procedures that must be undertaken to mitigate the threat and restore business functions as
per the Organizational Incident Response/Disaster Recovery roadmap.
2
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
Operation Grand Mars: Defending Against Carbanak Cyber Attacks