4.4 Backdoor Installation and C&C Communication Tools
After the attackers gained access to the target computers and in parallel to the lateral movement, they
started leaking files from the attacked systems back to their own computers. Our understanding is that
this is the goal of the campaign – information theft, and this even though the campaign possibly
cooperated with APT33, known for its destructive malware-spreading capabilities, which we didn’t
identify in this campaign.
In this chapter we will review several tools used to leak the information and communicate with the
targeted computers. This stage’s main concept is establishing the ability to connect, through RDP, to
the target company, categorizing relevant files either by looking at them online or through file name
lists, and then exfiltrating them to the attacker in different ways. Note, that the tools and techniques
changed between different attacks, and therefore this chapter lists them, again, not necessarily in
chronological order.
The following scheme represents the different ways for the attackers to connect to the targets:
12 github.com/Kevin-Robertson/Invoke-TheHash

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
20 | P a g e
Backdoor - RDP over
Serveo
SSH with malware
Exfiltration channel C&C
Local IIS
Local Webshell via
IIS
Virtual Directory in
IIS
Reverse Proxy / SSH
Forwarding
Ngrok
FRP
Infiltrate Network
Socket
RDP over SSH
Tunneling
Webshells
4.4.1 “POWSSHNET”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Lateral Movement, Credential Access (TA0008, TA0006)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Remote Services, Remote Desktop Protocol, Credentials in Files
(T1021, T1076, T1081)
“Backdoor POWSSHNET -RDP over SSH Tunneling” is a self-developed tool used by the attackers to
open an SSH tunneling through an executable that allows RDP connection to the computer. Most of
the files used in the campaign are PE EXE files. The use of those files is divided into two periods: in 2017
the attackers used files for 32-bit systems, while in 2019 they used files for 64-bit systems. It should be
noted that this kind of files is very rarely identified by the different anti-virus engines. Thus, the files
relevant to the 2017 attacks are completely unidentified as infect by Virus Total; the files used in 2019
are identified only by a few AV companies.

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
21 | P a g e
During the attack, the attackers install on target computers an exe file that is named differently, while
the naming mainly has the term “SSH”. Several examples of the files’ naming: Svchosts.exe, Sshnet.exe,
Ssh2.exe, Isaa.exe, cssrss.exe.
Those malwares have the following PDB path:
C:\Users\Administrator\Desktop\sshnet\sshnet\obj\Release\sshnet.pdb
Those files share some common characteristics. First, those files share the same VS version,
FEEF04BDh, that is otherwise uncommon.
All the files, both from 2017 and 2019, share the same version that is characterized by a file description
that has the word “sshnet” and a copyright for 2017:
These files are characterized by a global unique identifier (GUID) that is common to most of the infected
files in this infrastructure: $68c4e12f-221f-4580-9631-940208a4306c.

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
22 | P a g e
When the file is run on the attacked computer (after the appropriate credentials are acquired), an SSH
tunnel will be opened to an SSH server, whose address and authentication credentials are embedded
in the malware’s source code. It should be noted that in each file there were two different pairs of
username and password embedded. Analyzing the files used to attack in Israel, we have found several
important points:

The first username used to attempt establish a connection is “Arbab”. This word exists in the

Persian language and means “boss”, “manager”, “lord” or, in a more archaic context, “tribe
chief”. It should be noted the “Arbab” is also the name of a Saudi VPN operator, and it’s
possible that it was another target in this campaign.
2. The first password used in the files repeats itself in all the files in the infrastructure, both from
2017 and 2019. The password is “G654g654!”.
3. The attacker connects twice – once to the server itself, and once to a relevant folder in the
target server. This folder is characterized by the path that is also hard-coded.
As it can be seen in the screenshot, the malware connects to the C2 server (redacted for privacy
reasons) and then connects to the following routing: jdomain\jbreports . To connect to the C2 server,
a legitimate DLL called Renci.SshNet and the “ Idstr ” value are used. As can be seen from the source
code sample, this action invokes a specific content from a string found in the metadata. Another
meaningful credential is the “VPNADM” username, which could be a credential for the VPN on target
host. Following is a list of processes that occur during the malware’s run and communication with the
server:

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
23 | P a g e
After successful installation and connection, the attacker connects by RDP to a user that he/she had
created on the server, collects relevant files (mainly documents), and then compiles and uploads them
in different ways, also through different webshells.
Additionally, the attacker can change the code remotely, by using remote procedures (RPC). This can
be seen by the string we’ve found in several files:
RPC Control\ConsoleLPC-0x00000D00--4464068031611364423-192740709229075714434655797
2141428712-859675490-1693773642
4.4.2 Socket-based Backdoor for Socket Opening
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Command and Control (TA0005)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Uncommonly Used Port (T1065)
This is a tool which allows opening sockets and it’s based on several publicly available scripts, modified
by the group. The attackers use the tool, named “cs.exe” on target network, to create a backdoor as an
additional communication channel. As part of the tool’s activity, it allows creating a communication
channel based on two-way, connection-based byte streams between to end points. The piece of code
that defines the channel’s properties is called “eifHEY”, and with it the type of the socket
(SocketType.Stream) and the protocol over which the information will be transmitted
(ProtocolType.Tcp) are defined as well:

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
24 | P a g e
In the main function, the hard-coded IP address (95.211.104[.]253) and the port (2255) are defined:
Upon starting a connection with this tool to the C2 server, the “Idstr” value will contain the server’s
address:
The backdoor is identified by 39 Anti-Virus engines:

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
25 | P a g e
Additionally, we’ve identified several files connected to this backdoor, called
“ConsoleApplication5.exe”, and establishing a connection with the same server at 95.211.104[.]253.
The PDB route of the files is:
C:\users\administrator\documents\visual studio
2015\Projects\ConsoleApplication5\ConsoleApplication5\obj\Release\ConsoleApplication5.pdb
4.4.3 “Servo”, “Ngrok”, and “FRP”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Command And Control, Defense Evasion (TA0011, TA0005)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Connection Proxy (T1090)
During analysis, we have identified three public tools used as reverse proxy/SSH forwarding by the
attackers – Ngrok, Servo, and FRP.
Ngrok
Ngrok is a publicly available tool that allows a free, secure connection between the corporate
network’s localhost and the internet [13] . Using Ngrok, the attacker can securely exfiltrate any file present
on the corporate network, including those that the attacker created him/herself. The attacker can
connect to the target station with RDP, activate a webshell, for example, and remotely access files that
are not supposed to be exposed. In parallel, the attacker can monitor any HTTP connection attempt
to Ngrok’s address and see its exposure to the outside world. Moreover, the attacker can create
domains even for services that don’t use HTTP, e.g. SSH tunneling, which can be useful for the
operation of the tools discussed earlier. An example of this tool being used is the IP address
18.211.150[.]202, operated by Amazon and used by the Iranians for this campaign.
13 ngrok.com/

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
26 | P a g e
Serveo
Serveo is a free tool for opening outside-facing servers and applications on a corporate network [14],
whether on localhost or elsewhere. Unlike Ngrok, Serveo is an SSH-only server; also, any port that will
be defined to it (safe for 22, 80, and 443 which are accessible from outside) will get another, unassigned
TCP port instead. Using this service, the attacker was operating different services inside the network.
Thus, for instance, the attacker had operated an RDP connection through the localhost on port 3389
(RDP); using Serveo, the attacker has opened this RDP for the outside world through port 12618 (TCP).
The attacker has opened an SSH tunneling to another port in order to maintain an encrypted RDP on
the attacked target.
Moreover, like with the backdoor that had hardcoded and predefined credentials, here too the attacker
separated every server that was opened to the outside world. In the example above (whereas the
original credentials were omitted), the attacker had created a personal user in Serveo for a specific
server.
FRP
Fast Reverse Proxy (FRP) [15] is a method for revealing servers behind NAT or a firewall to the outside
world. To bypass it, the attacker uses the company’s original proxy and from there goes out.
4.4.4 Internal and External Webshells
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Persistence, Command And Control (TA0008, TA0011)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: WebShell, Connection Proxy, Remote Services (T1100, T1090,
T1021)
The attacker used a variety of methods to maintain his/her access to the numerous servers inside the
targeted organization. This access allowed the attacker to continue establishing the foothold in the
organization and exfiltrate stolen files. These actions were carried out, amongst other things, through
webshells of two kinds:


A webshell inside the organization accessible to the network.


An external webshell where files can be uploaded to.


Local IIS webshells and virtual directory
Upon breaching the network, the attacker creates a webshell using IIS on a server to which the attacker
got the permissions. The webshell is either downloaded directly, using aspx files, some of which the
attacker finds on the internet, or using a self-developed webshell, hidden under other file extensions,
e.g. .gif or .jpg.
One of the webshell files was uploaded to Virus Total from Iran on November 27 [th], 2019, close to the
peak of attacks against Israeli companies. This file, called warn.aspx, contains a form that will be
established in the company and will allow CMD run inside the corporate network. The script allowing
14 serveo.net/
15 github.com/fatedier/frp

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
27 | P a g e
it is written in C. This file will be part of the applications used by the attacker, through IIS, on the client
side:
Another file was written in Jscript and contains evidence of using base64 encoding (note the
“admin@123” user):
For reasons unclear to us at this time, we have found the attackers executing a process focused on
numerous servers on the company’s internal network. First, the attackers created a webshell through
IIS exposed to the world. Parallelly, they created a virtual directory on another server to which they also
had access. In this directory the attackers installed the aspx file. Thus, when the attackers wanted to
communicate with another server sitting on the same corporate LAN, they could do this using one
webshell. Following is a scheme of this action:
Exfiltration channel – communicating with the C2 server
We have found open directories, exposed through port 80 to the outside world on external servers used
throughout the campaign.
On one of the PHP files we have found a form that allows to upload files directly to the server

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
28 | P a g e
In the attack scenarios discovered by us, four C2 servers were used. Each server has four open ports –
80, 443, and 22 (OpenSSH). The address of the chosen server was hardcoded in the malware’s source
code and the connection to it was performed using methods elaborated earlier. It appears that only in
singular cases the same server was reused. The servers active throughout the October 2019 attacks
were of the Apache type . Every such server got a separate and server-specific key.
In 2017, the APT34 group attacked several IT companies in Israel, similar to the targeting in this
campaign. In order to perform the initial infection of the company, the group has used the CVE-20170199 vulnerability to salvage and HTA script from an RTF file.
Using a tool called “rtfdump”, we have analyzed the aforementioned file, in order to understand
whether there are OLE actions, for instance, which could allow the activation of the vulnerability.
As can be seen from the output, those components were not used. However, in Level 3, under the
Generator title, there is data that can be salvaged and describes the file’s version and language:
{*\generator LibreOffice/5.0.6.2
LibreOffice_project/00m02}{\info{\creatim\yr2017\mo3\dy27\hr14\min10
As one can see, the file exists since March 27 [th], 2017, close to the APT34 attacks in Israel using RTF files.
Also, the file’s language is “Arabic – Saudi Arabia”:

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
29 | P a g e
              4.4.5 Archives (WinRAR or 7 zip)

MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Exfiltration (TA0010)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Data Compressed (T1002)
During our analysis of the different targets, we have seen that the attackers are manually sifting the
relevant intelligence before sending it back to Iran. After marking all the desired files, the material will
be compressed into WinRAR or 7-ZIP files, and only then will be sent to the attackers.

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
30 | P a g e