NIST CSF Protect
Protective technology
Some Cyber-Espionage protective
measures can be automated. Data
Leakage Prevention (DLP) solutions
send alerts when data leaves the
network. These solutions also offer
a large variety of features, such as
detecting or blocking data copied to
external locations, sent by email, or
shared using file-sharing apps and
sites; preventing protected data from
being printed; and more. DLP solutions
can even help identify unencrypted
data destinations.
Protection tips

Safeguard against Cyber
Espionage attacks with
network segmentation,
strict access controls,
layered security, a leastprivilege practice and
multifactor authentication

for lateral movement into
critical data areas

Train end users to recognize

and report social attacks,
such as phishing or pretexting

Compile a critical data

inventory and implement
access controls and
monitoring to ensure that
data is safe

Implement DLP solutions to

detect and prevent sensitive
data from being exported,
shared or copied
Develop and implement appropriate
safeguards to ensure delivery of
critical services.
Sophisticated threat actors often use
stealthy methods to perpetrate CyberEspionage attacks. These methods
can include utilizing compromised
administrative credentials or
leveraging dual-use tools that blend in
with the environment.
These threat actors also deploy custom
zero-day malware, which antivirus
or other alerting software cannot
detect. From our experience, CyberEspionage attacks—using sophisticated
techniques; taking steps to avoid
detection; and having specific, targeted
objectives—tend to be considerably
more difficult to detect and investigate
than other breaches. Nevertheless,
there are ways to protect against them
even without specific knowledge of
their custom/zero-day nature.
Access control
With administrative permissions and
a flat (i.e., unsegmented) network, a
threat actor has the freedom to roam.
Even in segmented networks, a threat
actor can find their way to the coveted
data utilizing mapping and other dualuse tools. Network segmentation, strict
access controls, layered security (the
more access controls the better), a
least-privilege practice and multifactor
authentication for lateral movement into
critical data areas can all help safeguard
against Cyber-Espionage attacks.
Awareness and training
As seen in the 2020 DBIR, CyberEspionage attacks rely heavily on Social
and Malware combined vectors, using
Phishing in 81% of the incidents and
some form of Malware in 92%. Training
end users to recognize and report social
attacks, such as phishing or pretexting,
can help reduce poor outcomes related
to Cyber-Espionage attacks.
Data security
Secure the data that is most valuable
and sought after by cyber threat
actors. Compile a critical data inventory
and implement access controls and
monitoring to ensure that data is safe.
Processes and procedures
Appropriately crafted corporate
processes and procedures can help
protect sensitive data. These should
cover everything from ensuring that
user devices are protected with
encryption and strong passwords to
restricting the use of public Wi-Fi and
determining how sensitive data should
be securely transmitted. Security
practices should ensure safe and
closely controlled access to potentially
vulnerable data.
Maintenance
Cyber-Espionage risk mitigation is far
from a set-it-and-forget-it strategy.
Regular maintenance should be
performed to ensure that employees
follow proper cybersecurity measures
and procedures so that data is protected.
12 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report