Chain of Attack
While examining customer alerts and telemetry, we noticed several infiltrations into victim
networks that were achieved via a Log4Shell exploitation of vulnerable VMware Horizon servers.
These attacks spawned a new PowerShell process to download and execute a chain of scripts that
ended with the installation of a malicious DLL.
https://www.fortinet.com/blog/threat-research/deep-panda-log4shell-fire-chili-rootkits 1/16
4/27/22, 3:49 PM New Milestones for Deep Panda: Log4Shell and Digitally Signed Fire Chili Rootkits
Figure 1: Flow of events from Log4Shell exploitation to execution of the final payload
The encoded PowerShell command downloads another PowerShell script from a remote server
and executes it.
Figure 2: The decoded PowerShell command
The next stage PowerShell script downloads three additional files from the same server: 1.bat,
syn.exe and 1.dll.
https://www.fortinet.com/blog/threat-research/deep-panda-log4shell-fire-chili-rootkits 2/16
4/27/22, 3:49 PM New Milestones for Deep Panda: Log4Shell and Digitally Signed Fire Chili Rootkits
Figure 3: Content of the p.txt PowerShell script downloaded from the server
The script then executes 1.bat, which in turn executes syn.exe and proceeds to delete all three
files from the disk.
Figure 4: Content of 1.bat script downloaded from the server
syn.exe is a program that loads its first command-line argument using LoadLibrary, in this case,
1.dll. The 1.dll module is the final payload, a backdoor that we have dubbed Milestone. Its code is
based on the leaked source code of Gh0st RAT/Netbot Attacker and is packed with Themida.
The backdoor copies itself to %APPDATA%\newdev.dll and creates a service named
msupdate2 by creating the service entry directly in the registry. Several other service names and
descriptions have been observed among different samples.
Figure 5: “msupdate2” service registered by Milestone
While it has the same name as the legitimate Microsoft newdev.dll, it has only two of the real
newdev.dll's exports plus an additional ServiceMain export.
Figure 6: Exports of the malicious Milestone
https://www.fortinet.com/blog/threat-research/deep-panda-log4shell-fire-chili-rootkits 3/16
4/27/22, 3:49 PM New Milestones for Deep Panda: Log4Shell and Digitally Signed Fire Chili Rootkits
Overall, the backdoor has capabilities similar to Gh0st RAT’s, with notable differences. Its C2
communication is uncompressed, unlike Gh0st RAT communication which is zlib-compressed.
There are differences in commands as well. For example, in the CMD command, some variants
first copy cmd.exe to dllhost.exe to avoid detection by security products that monitor CMD
executions. Additionally, the backdoor supports a command that sends information about the
current sessions on the system to the server. This command does not exist in the original Gh0st
RAT source code.
Among the many backdoor samples we hunted down, there are two distinguishable versions:
binaries compiled in 2016 contain the version string MileStone2016, while those compiled in
2017 contain MileStone2017. The samples used in the recent infections we detected are only the
2017 variants.
There are several differences between the 2016 and 2017 Milestones. First, 2017 Milestones are
typically packed with Themida, while 2016 ones are unpacked. Secondly, although 2016
Milestones have plausible timestamps, all 2017 Milestones share an identical timestamp, which
leads us to believe they are forged. Combined with the fact that 2017 backdoors are used in
attacks to this day, it is uncertain whether they were compiled in 2017 or much later.
The two versions also slightly differ in commands and communication. 2016 Milestones apply
XOR encryption to their communication, as well as support a command to execute as a new user
with administrator privileges. To do so, the backdoor first creates a new administrator user on
the system, with the username ANONYMOUS and the password MileSt0ne2@16. It then
executes another instance of itself as that user with CreateProcessAsUser and proceeds to
remove the user from the system immediately thereafter.