Glossary
This glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army, multi-Service, or joint definitions,
and other selected terms. The proponent publication for a term is listed in parentheses
after the definition.
SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AOR area of responsibility
ARCYBER United States Army Cyber Command
CCMD combatant command
CEMA cyberspace electromagnetic activities
CERF cyber effects request format
CEWO cyber electromagnetic warfare officer
CNMF cyber national mission force
CNMF-HQ Cyber National Mission Force-Headquarters
COA course of action
CPT cyber protection team
D3A decide, detect, deliver, and assess
DCO defensive cyberspace operations
DCO-IDM defensive cyberspace operations-internal defensive measures
DCO-RA defensive cyberspace operations-response actions
DODIN Department of Defense information network
DODIN-A Department of Defense information network-Army
EA electromagnetic attack
EMI electromagnetic interference
EMOE electromagnetic operational environment
EMS electromagnetic spectrum
EMSO electromagnetic spectrum operations
EP electromagnetic protection
ES electromagnetic support
EW electromagnetic warfare
I2CEWS intelligence, information, cyber, electromagnetic warfare and space
IO information operations
IP Internet Protocol
IPB intelligence preparation of the battlefield
JEMSO joint electromagnetic spectrum operations
JEMSOC joint electromagnetic spectrum operations cell
JFHQ-C Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 Glossary-1
Glossary
JFHQ-DODIN Joint Force Headquarters-Department of Defense Information Network
JTF joint task force
NCO noncommissioned officer
NETCOM United States Army Network Enterprise Technology Command
OCO offensive cyberspace operations
OE operational environment
OPLAN operation plan
OPORD operation order
OPSEC operations security
RFS request for support
SIGINT signals intelligence
TSS targeting sensing software
USC United States Code
USCYBERCOM United States Cyber Command
SECTION II – TERMS
adversary
A party acknowledged as potentially hostile to a friendly party and against which the use of force may
be envisaged. (JP 3-0)
Army design methodology
A methodology for applying critical and creative thinking to understand, visualize, and describe
problems and approaches to solving them. Also called ADM . (ADP 5-0)
assessment
1) A continuous process that measures the overall effectiveness of employing capabilities during
military operations . 2) Determination of the progress toward accomplishing a task, creating a
condition, or achieving an objective. 3) Analysis of the security, effectiveness, and potential of an
existing or planned intelligence activity. 4) Judgment of the motives, qualifications, and characteristics
of present or prospective employees or “agents.” (JP 3-0)
chaff
Radar confusion reflectors, consisting of thin, narrow metallic strips of various lengths and frequency
responses, which are used to reflect echoes for confusion purposes. (JP 3-85)
combat power
The total means of destructive, constructive, and information capabilities that a military unit or
formation can apply at a given time. (ADP 3-0)
constraint
A restriction placed on the command by a higher command. (FM 6-0)
countermeasures
That form of military science that, by the employment of devices and/or techniques, has as its objective
the impairment of the operational effectiveness of enemy activity. (JP 3-85)
cyberspace
A global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent networks of
information technology infrastructures and resident data, including the Internet, telecommunications
networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers. (JP 3-12)
Glossary-2 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Glossary
cyberspace attack
Actions taken in cyberspace that create noticeable denial effects (i.e., degradation, disruption, or
destruction) in cyberspace or manipulation that leads to denial that appears in a physical domain, and is
considered a form of fires. (JP 3-12)
cyberspace electromagnetic activities
The process of planning, integrating, and synchronizing cyberspace operations and electromagnetic
warfare operations in support of unified land operations. Also called CEMA . (ADP 3-0)
cyberspace exploitation
Actions taken in cyberspace to gain intelligence, maneuver, collect information, or perform other
enabling actions required to prepare for future military operations. (JP 3-12)
cyberspace defense
Actions taken within protected cyberspace to defeat specific threats that have breached or are
threatening to breach cyberspace security measures and include actions to detect, characterize, counter,
and mitigate threats, including malware or the unauthorized activities of users, and to restore the
system to a secure configuration. (JP 3-12)
cyberspace operations
The employment of cyberspace capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve objectives in or
through cyberspace. Also see CO . (JP 3-0)
cyberspace security
Actions taken within protected cyberspace to prevent unauthorized access to, exploitation of, or
damage to computers, electronic communications systems, and other information technology,
including platform information technology, as well as the information contained therein, to ensure its
availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation. (JP 3-12)
defeat
To render a force incapable of achieving its objectives. (ADP 3-0)
defensive cyberspace operations
Missions to preserve the ability to utilize blue cyberspace capabilities and protect data, networks,
cyberspace-enabled devices, and other designated systems by defeating on-going or imminent
malicious cyberspace activity. Also called DCO . (JP 3-12)
defensive cyberspace operations-internal defensive measures
Operations in which authorized defense actions occur within the defended portion of cyberspace. Also
called DCO-IDM . (JP 3-12)
defensive cyberspace operations-response actions
Operations that are part of a defensive cyberspace operations mission that are taken external to the
defended network or portion of cyberspace without permission of the owner of the affected system.
Also called DCO-RA . (JP 3-12)
Department of Defense information network
The set of information capabilities and associated processes for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel, whether interconnected or stand-alone. Also called DODIN . (JP 6-0)
Department of Defense information network-Army
An Army-operated enclave of the Department of Defense information network that encompasses all
Army information capabilities that collect, process, store, display, disseminate, and protect information
worldwide. Also called DODIN-A . (ATP 6-02.71)
Department of Defense information network operations
Operations to secure, configure, operate, extend, maintain, and sustain Department of Defense
cyberspace to create and preserve the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the Department of
Defense information network. Also called DODIN operations . (JP 3-12)
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 Glossary-3
Glossary
directed energy
An umbrella term covering technologies that relate to the production of a beam of concentrated
electromagnetic energy or atomic or subatomic particles. Also called DE . (JP 3-85)
directed-energy warfare
Military actions involving the use of directed-energy weapons, devices, and countermeasures. Also
called DEW . (JP 3-85)
directed-energy weapon
A weapon or system that uses directed energy to incapacitate, damage, or destroy enemy equipment,
facilities, and/or personnel. (JP 3-85)
direction finding
A procedure for obtaining bearings of radio frequency emitters by using a highly directional antenna
and a display unit on an intercept receiver or ancillary equipment. Also called DF . (JP 3-85)
dynamic targeting
Targeting that prosecutes targets identified too late or not selected for action in time to be included in
deliberate targeting. (JP 3-60)
electromagnetic attack
Division of electromagnetic warfare involving the use of electromagnetic energy, directed energy, or
antiradiation weapons to attack personnel, facilities, or equipment with the intent of degrading,
neutralizing, or destroying enemy combat capability and is considered a form of fires. Also called EA .
(JP 3-85)
electromagnetic compatibility
The ability of systems, equipment, and devices that use the electromagnetic spectrum to operate in
their intended environments without causing or suffering unacceptable or unintentional degradation
because of electromagnetic radiation or response. Also called EMC . (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic hardening
Actions taken to protect personnel, facilities, and/or equipment by blanking, filtering, attenuating,
grounding, bonding, and/or shielding against undesirable effects of electromagnetic energy. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic masking
The controlled radiation of electromagnetic energy on friendly frequencies in a manner to protect the
emissions of friendly communications and electronic systems against enemy electromagnetic support
measures/signals intelligence without significantly degrading the operation of friendly systems. (JP 385)
electromagnetic intrusion
The intentional insertion of electromagnetic energy into transmission paths in any manner. The
objective of electromagnetic intrusion is to deceive threat operators or cause confusion. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic jamming
The deliberate radiation, reradiation, or reflection of electromagnetic energy for the purpose of
preventing or reducing an enemy’s effective use of the electromagnetic spectrum, and with the intent
of degrading or neutralizing the enemy’s combat capability. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic probing
The intentional radiation designed to be introduced into the devices or systems of adversaries to learn
the functions and operational capabilities of the devices or systems. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic protection
Division of electromagnetic warfare involving actions taken to protect personnel, facilities, and
equipment from any effects of friendly or enemy use of the electromagnetic spectrum that degrade,
neutralize, or destroy friendly combat capability. Also called EP . (JP 3-85)
Glossary-4 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Glossary
electromagnetic pulse
A strong burst of electromagnetic radiation caused by a nuclear explosion, energy weapon, or by
natural phenomenon, that may couple with electrical or electronic systems to produce damaging
current and voltage surges. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic reconnaissance
The detection, location, identification, and evaluation of foreign electromagnetic radiations. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic security
The protection resulting from all measures designed to deny unauthorized persons information of value
that might be derived from their interception and study of noncommunications electromagnetic
radiations (e.g., radar). (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic spectrum superiority
That degree of control in the electromagnetic spectrum that permits the conduct of operations at a
given time and place without prohibitive interference, while affecting the threat’s ability to do the
same. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic support
Division of electromagnetic warfare involving actions tasked by, or under the direct control of, an
operational commander to search for, intercept, identify, and locate or localize sources of intentional
and unintentional radiated electromagnetic energy for immediate threat recognition, targeting,
planning, and conduct of future operations. Also called ES. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic vulnerability
The characteristics of a system that cause it to suffer a definite degradation (incapability to perform the
designated mission) as a result of having been subjected to a certain level of electromagnetic
environmental effects. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic warfare
Military action involving the use of electromagnetic and directed energy to control the electromagnetic
spectrum or to attack the enemy. Also called EW . (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic warfare reprogramming
The deliberate alteration or modification of electromagnetic warfare or target sensing systems, or the
tactics and procedures that employ them, in response to validated changes in equipment, tactics, or the
electromagnetic environment. (JP 3-85)
enemy
An enemy is a party identified as hostile against which the use of force is authorized. (ADP 3-0)
essential task
A specified or implied task that must be executed to accomplish the mission. (FM 6-0)
execution
The act of putting a plan into action by applying combat power to accomplish the mission and
adjusting operations based on changes in the situation. (ADP 5-0)
hazard
A condition with the potential to cause injury, illness, or death of personnel, damage to or loss of
equipment or property, or mission degradation. (JP 3-33)
high-payoff target
A target whose loss to the enemy will significantly contribute to the success of the friendly course of
action. Also called HPT . ( JP 3-60)
high-value target
A target the enemy commander requires for the successful completion of the mission. (JP 3-60)
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 Glossary-5
Glossary
hybrid threat
A hybrid threat is the diverse and dynamic combination of regular forces, irregular forces, terrorists, or
criminal elements acting in concert to achieve mutually benefitting effects. (ADP 3-0)
implied task
A task that must be performed to accomplish a specified task or mission but is not stated in the higher
headquarters’ order. (FM 6-0)
information collection
An activity that synchronizes and integrates the planning and employment of sensors and assets as well
as the processing, exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of current and future
operations. (FM 3-55)
information operations
The integrated employment, during military operations, of information-related capabilities in concert
with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt, corrupt, or usurp the decision-making of adversaries
and potential adversaries while protecting our own. Also called IO . (JP 3-13)
intelligence
1) The product resulting from the collection, processing, integration, evaluation, analysis, and
interpretation of available information concerning foreign nations, hostile or potentially hostile forces
or elements, or areas of actual or potential operations. 2) The activities that result in the product.
3) The organizations engaged in such activities. (JP 2-0)
intelligence operations
The tasks undertaken by military intelligence units through the intelligences disciplines to obtain
information to satisfy validated requirements. (ADP 2-0)
intelligence preparation of the battlefield
The systematic process of analyzing the mission variables of enemy, terrain, weather, and civil
considerations in an area of interest to determine their effect on operations. Also called IPB .
(ATP 2-01.3)
knowledge management
The process of enabling knowledge flow to enhance shared understanding, learning, and decision
making. (ADP 6-0)
named area of interest
The geospatial area or systems node or link against which information that will satisfy a specific
information requirement can be collected. Also called NAI . (JP 2-01.3)
offensive cyberspace operations
Missions intended to project power in and through cyberspace. Also called OCO . (JP 3-12)
operational environment
A composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of
capabilities and impact the decisions of the commander assigned responsibility for it. Also called OE .
(JP 3-0)
operational initiative
The setting or tempo and terms of action throughout an operation. (ADP 3-0)
operations process
The major command and control activities performed during operations: planning, preparing,
executing, and continuously assessing the operation. (ADP 5-0)
operations security
A capability that identifies and controls critical information, indicators of friendly force actions
attendant to military operations, and incorporates countermeasures to reduce the risk of an adversary
exploiting vulnerabilities. Also called OPSEC . (JP 3-13.3)
Glossary-6 FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Glossary
planning
The art and science of understanding a situation, envisioning a desired future, and laying out effective
ways of bringing that future about. (ADP 5-0)
position of relative advantage
A location or the establishment of a favorable condition within the area of operations that provides the
commander with temporary freedom of action to enhance combat power over an enemy or influence
the enemy to accept risk and move to a position of disadvantage. (ADP 3.0)
preparation
Those activities performed by units and Soldiers to improve their ability to execute an operation. (ADP
5.0)
priority of fires
The commander’s guidance to the staff, subordinate commanders, fires planners, and supporting
agencies to employ fires in accordance with the relative importance of a unit’s mission. (FM 3-09)
priority of support
A priority set by the commander to ensure a subordinate unit has support in accordance with its
relative importance to accomplish the mission. (ADP 5-0)
radio frequency countermeasures
Any device or technique employing radio frequency materials or technology that is intended to impair
the effectiveness of enemy activity, particularly with respect to precision-guided and sensor systems.
(JP 3-85)
risk management
The process to identify, assess, and control risks and make decisions that balance risk cost with
mission benefits. (JP 3-0)
scheme of fires
The detailed, logical sequence of targets and fire support events to find and engage targets to support
commander’s objectives. (JP 3-09)
specified task
A task specifically assigned to an organization by its higher headquarters. (FM 6-0)
sustainment warfighting function
The related tasks and systems that provide support and services to ensure freedom of action, extended
operational reach, and prolong endurance. (ADP 3-0)
target
An entity or object that performs a function for the adversary considered for possible engagement or
other actions. See also o bjective area . (JP 3-60)
target area of interest
The geographical area where high-valued targets can be acquired and engaged by friendly forces. (JP
2-01.3)
targeting
The process of selecting and prioritizing targets and matching the appropriate response to them,
considering operational requirements and capabilities. (JP 3-0)
warfighting function
A group of tasks and systems united by a common purpose that commanders use to accomplish
missions and training objectives. (ADP 3-0)
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 Glossary-7
Glossary
wartime reserve modes
Characteristics and operating procedures of sensor, communications, navigation aids, threat
recognition, weapons, and countermeasure systems that will contribute to military effectiveness if
unknown to or misunderstood by opposing commanders before they are used, but could be exploited or
neutralized if known in advance. (JP 3-85)
Glossary-8 FM 3-12 24 August 2021