Social Engineering Attack Infrastructure
Introduction
To gain control over the victim machines, Lazarus used social engineering techniques. Attackers use
such techniques to disguise themselves as colleagues, legitimate service providers etc. thus luring
users into disclosing private account information or granting the attackers access to machines or
resources, without having to find and exploit a vulnerability. Lazarus is known for its focus on social
engineering and its development of advanced fraud operations. In early 2019, the group executed an
attack against Redbanc – a Chilean interbank network that connected all of the country’s ATM
machines together – by establishing direct contact with the victim. The attackers impersonated
Human Resources recruiters of grand corporates and conducted job interviews with their victims, over
the phone and even via Skype, in both English and Spanish.
During our research we uncovered social engineering techniques utilized by the group in this
campaign, meant to persuade the victim to open a malicious file using his personal or corporate
computer. Similar to the Redbanc campaign, we found evidence to the use of LinkedIn as part of the
fraud operations carried out in this campaign. The attackers had long conversations with the victims,
lasting several days to several weeks, during which they utilized techniques meant to lend them
credibility.
The following is a summary of all social engineering techniques used by the group:

Creating a fictitious profile impersonating a legitimate company employee (e.g. Boeing)

relevant to the potential victim’s background.

Joining the potential victim’s social circles by adding its friends on social media, thus

establishing trust and reliability.

Initiating primary contact in English and having a conversation in which the victim im is offered

to start a discreet recruitment process for a covered position in their company.

An extensive correspondence with the victim, that sometimes lasts days and even weeks,

including phone calls and WhatsApp texts. Accompanying the target throughout the actual
infection process, in which a malicious file is sent to the victim.
Social Engineering methods used to Establish a Credible Attack Infrastructure
First Stage – Creating a Reliable Fictitious Entity
As mentioned in the above introduction, Lazarus group usually initiates contact with its victims using
fictitious accounts allegedly belonging to recruitment experts in various companies, usually
companies affiliated with the aviation and defense sectors such as Boeing and McDonnell Douglas. In
the researched campaign Lazarus uses LinkedIn accounts – an informed choice as LinkedIn is a
business and employment-oriented media most often used by job seekers and recruiters.
Furthermore, in many cases no validation process precedes the approval of new friends. Low

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
14 | P a g e
awareness and lack of validation techniques make it easy for the attackers to create multiple fictitious
entities and establish the impression that the attacker’s entity is part of your business-related social
circle. This process can easily take place using Twitter as well, unlike Facebook.
Upon creating a fictitious profile, the attacker adds to its account friends from the alleged company for
which he works (e.g. Boeing) as well as from the victim’s workplace to maximize its credibility and
minimize the target’s suspicion. Fictitious entities are not created in masses – they are carefully tailored
to the victims and the operation designed for them, based on extensive reconnaissance research.
During our investigation we were able to identify several tailored fictitious accounts. In some cases,
Lazarus attackers create an entirely new entity whereas in others they base their account on a real
profile found on the media. In these cases, the impostor account is fully copied from the real profile.
For example, an account impersonating a Human Resources recruiter from Boeing can be created
based on a real recruiter’s account, and a simple Google search would lead to both the real and
fictitious accounts. Unlike the original profile, the fictitious one would contain numbers in its URI,
instead of a full name, as can be seen in the below Google search screenshot.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
15 | P a g e
Following is an example of a profile created to attack employees of defense companies in Israel:


The real profile of a recruiter from Boeing:


The fake profile that apparently was deleted after the attackers finished the impersonation


Second Stage – Luring the victim via a Job Posting
Once a reliable fictitious entity has been created – a process which could take weeks, if not months –
the attackers reach out to the victim using the profile, offering them a job at the company for which
they allegedly recruit. The attackers offer the victim to begin a discreet recruitment process which

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
16 | P a g e
discussing the position and process in detail. Below here is a simulation of an initial correspondence
between Lazarus attackers and a victim via LinkedIn.
Third Stage – Attacker-Victim Communication
The communication about the job offer between the attacker behind the fictitious profile and the
victim can take weeks in not months. As the attackers initiate the contact, the in many cases the victim
is not looking for a new job or willing to leave its current position, the collaboration is not instant.
Significant persuasion efforts may be required to get the victim to review the offer tailored for them.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
17 | P a g e
Unlike other known attack methods, in which most of the efforts are invested in the primary contact,
in this attack scenario efforts and resources are put into both the entity creation and the
communication with the victims. Even if the victim is not interested in the position offered by the
attacker, he is persuaded to fully review the details of the eligible position offered exclusively for him
before making up his mind and taking the final decision. The job offer is tailored and discreet –
increasing its reliability and decreasing the suspicion that a targeted attack is taking place. The
discretion enables the attacker to negotiate with the attackers in length, as its current position is not
endangered by the process.
The communication begins in the social media, but swiftly proceeds over the phone via WhatsApp, or
by the victim’s personal email, allegedly to ensure discretion. In reality, the transition is meant bypass
security mechanisms and software implemented on the victim’s company account. The use of an
– –
instant messaging application to conduct phone calls in this case WhatsApp as part of the attack
process is unique to this campaign and has not been exposed before. It is a risky choice and a highly
sensitive operation, as the use of the wrong slang or accent can expose the entire operation. Phone

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
18 | P a g e
calls take place in later stages as well, when the victim encounters technical problems running the
malicious files on his machine – further information can be found below in the next chapter of the
report.
Sample initial correspondence between the attackers and the victim over WhatsApp (the mistakes
appear in the source):

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
19 | P a g e
Fourth Stage – Infection with Malware
After gaining the victim’s trust and persuading him to accept the job offer details, the attackers send
the victim a file using the storage services OneDrive of Dropbox. The attackers attempt to make the
victim download the file at his workplace – they do so by studying his daily routine and sending the file
at a carefully selected time. Please note that up until this stage, the attackers avoided using the target’s
corporate email account. Upon accessing the storage server, the victim downloads an archive file from
which the malicious files are extracted. The file names match the company and position discussed
before, and the attackers verify with the victim that he has indeed accessed the file.
At this point, the attackers abruptly cease all communication with the victim. They also close and
delete profiles used to contact the victim.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
20 | P a g e