Executive summary
This report describes the details and type of operations carried out by an organized criminal group
that focuses on financial industry, such as banks and
payment providers, retail industry and news, media
and PR companies. The group has its origin in more
common financial fraud including theft from consumer and corporate bank accounts in Europe and
Russia, using standard banking malware, mainly
Carberp.
After the arrests of Carberp group members in
Russia, some of the members were out of work,
however, their experience gained from many years
of crime has allowed them to enter a new niche. One
of the members quickly realized that they can steal
$2000 a thousand times, and earn $2 million, but
also they can steal it in one time and immediately
get it with much less effort. The anti-fraud measures
employed by banks has pushed the criminals to
search for new ways to make money with less barriers, compromising and modifying or taking data
from banks, payment providers, retail and media/
PR companies are some of these methods.
From 2013 an organized criminal group intensified its activity focused on banks and electronic payment systems in Russia and in the post-Soviet space.
The key is that fraud occurs within the corporate
network using internal payment gateways and internal banking systems. Thus money is stolen from
the banks and payment systems, and not from their
customers. While this is their main and most lucrative activity, the gang has also ventured into other
areas including the compromise of media groups
and other organizations for industrial espionage and
likely a trading advantage on the stock market. In
cases where the group got access to the government
agency networks their aim was espionage related.
The organized criminal group backbone are
citizens of both Russian and Ukrainian origin, but
the group also sources a number of mainstream and
specialized services from individuals and groups
originating from Russia , Ukraine and Belarus.
The average sum of theft in the Russian territory and in the post-Soviet space is $2 million per
incident. Since 2013 they have successfully gained
access to networks of more than 50 Russian banks
and 5 payment systems, and 2 of these institutions
were deprived of their banking license. To date the
total amount of theft is over 1 billion rubles (about
25 million dollars), most of it has been stolen in the
second half of 2014.
The average time from the moment of penetration
into the financial institutions internal network till
successful theft is 42 days.
As a result of access to internal bank networks
the attackers also managed to gain access to ATM
management infrastructure and infect those systems with their own malicious software that further
allows theft from the banks ATM systems on the
attackers command.
Since 2014 the organized criminal group members began actively taking an interest in US and European based retail organizations. While they were
already familiar with POS malware and compromising POS terminals, the widespread media attention
around the Target breach and other related breaches
were the reason for this move. While the scale of
breaches in this industry is still relatively low, with
at least 3 successful card breaches and over a dozen
retailers compromised this activity is quickly becoming a lucrative endeavor for this group.
To penetrate into the internal networks this
organized criminal group employs targeted emailing
(spear phishing) and infections sources from other
botnets. This is the main reason why the group is
2
keeping in touch with owners of large botnets. Since
August 2014 the group began to create their own
large botnet using a mass emailing, but not using
typical exploit driveby infections. This last move is
likely to reduce the need for external contacts.