T information into negotiations and political
issues. APT groups that target governments in the
region are frequently interested in topics related
to the South China Sea. And they are increasingly
active during times of heightened political tension
or transition.
APT Groups and the South China
Sea: Territorial Disputes with a
Digital Edge
FireEye routinely observes APT groups steal
information dealing with South China Sea disputes
and their economic effects from the networks of
governments and companies involved. Control
over territory in the South China Sea is a fiercely
contested issue between China, the Philippines,
Brunei, Vietnam, Taiwan, and Malaysia.
natural gas, and prime fishing areas.
Territorial disputes have lingered for decades.
Along with militaries and coast guards of claimant
countries, South China Sea disputes involve
regional oil firms, cargo companies, and fisheries.
The territory has been at the center of many
international incidents, reflecting the considerable
national and economic security implications for
the rival claimants.
12
SPECIAL REPORT Southeast Asia: An Evolving Cyber Threat Landscape
Government and military entities are
frequently targeted with malware that
steals sensitive security details.
Threat Groups Target Southeast
Asian Governments and Militaries
over Territorial Claims
Southeast Asian government and military entities
have been targeted several times in what we
suspect are efforts to obtain intelligence related
to territorial disputes.
         - An APT group stole data from one country’s

government and military networks on several
occasions, including a period of heightened
tension over competing claims in the South
China Sea. [1]
Some of the files that the APT group took
included the following:
–– General military documents
–– Internal communications
–– Equipment maintenance reports and
specifications
–– Event-related materials
–– Documentation of organizational
programs and initiatives
          - Other threat groups have targeted a country’s

air force with spear-phishing emails that
referenced the country’s military and regional
maritime disputes. These emails were designed
to appear to originate from email accounts
associated with other elements of the military.

Other threat actors have used the Grillmark

backdoor to attempt to gain access to the
networks of two countries’ government and
military entities. These threat actors targeted
their victims through spear-phishing emails
that contained weaponized documents relating
to either diplomatic or military affairs.
APT Groups Gather
Political Intelligence
In August 2014, an APT group appeared to
target intelligence related to a Southeast Asia
government. The threat actors sent a spearphishing email that referenced the country’s
leadership and contained a document with
sections extracted from related news articles.
The email appeared to originate from a
compromised intelligence agency email account,
although the threat actors may have faked the
email address. Many of the email’s recipients
were associated with the targeted country’s
government and military or were involved in intelsharing partnerships. In either case, the recipient
would likely have access to information regarding
the country’s security and internal stability.
1 Whaley, Floyd. “A Leviathan Turns Philippine Fishermen into Desperate Darters.” The New York Times. 18 May 2014. Web. 23 May 2014.
13
ABOUT FIREEYE
FireEye protects the most valuable assets in the world from those who have them in their sights. Our combination of
technology, intelligence, and expertise — reinforced with the most aggressive incident response team — helps eliminate the
impact of security breaches. We find and stop attackers at every stage of an incursion. With FireEye, you’ll detect attacks as
they happen. You’ll understand the risk these attacks pose to your most valued assets. And you’ll have the resources to
quickly respond and resolve security incidents. FireEye has over 3,100 customers across 67 countries, including over 200
of the Fortune 500.
14
FireEye, Inc. | 1440 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035 | 408.321.6300 | 877.FIREEYE (347.3393) | info@fireeye.com | www.fireeye.com
© 2015 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of
FireEye, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks
or service marks of their respective owners. SP.SEA.EN-US.022015