~~Ransomware~~ ~~and extortion~~
Ransomware basics and
taxonomy
Ransomware and extortion is a high-profit, low-cost
business which has a debilitating impact on targeted
organizations, national security, economic security,
and public health and safety. What started as simple
single-PC ransomware has grown to include a
variety of extortion techniques enabled by human
intelligence and is affecting the networks of all types
of organizations across the globe.
This combination of real-time intelligence and
broader criminal tactics, techniques, and procedures
Ransomware taxonomy
Primary role Description
(TTPs) has maximized the impact of these attacks
and driven the profits from these attacks to levels
that were hard to imagine a few years ago. To put
it in perspective, the publicly reported profits from
ransomware and extortion attacks gives these
attackers a budget that would likely rival the budgets
of nation state attack organizations (without even
counting the profits from attacks that never made
the headlines).
To counter ransomware, a global collaborative
effort between the private sector, law enforcement,
and government is necessary to reduce the
profitability of this crime, make it more difficult to
enter the ransomware market, and supply victims
with effective tools for efficient prevention and
remediation. Microsoft is a contributor to the
Ransomware Task Force report, a comprehensive
|Develops|Writes the malware|
|---|---|
|Deploys|Sends phishing emails, deploys ransomware|
|Provides access|Malware that loads other malware, or a group that sells access as a service|
|Manages/operates|Leadership of a group (such as MAZE cartel membership) and/or function thatprovides coordination (such as managing or operating a central extortion leak site)|
|Publicly reportedconnection|A publicly reported connection exists|
Note 2 https://securityandtechnology.org/ransomwaretaskforce/report/ Note 3 https://aka.ms/humanoperated
10
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Sample analysis of roles and relationships between entities within the ransomware ecosystem
Ransomware syndicates and affiliates are all working together toward these interconnected threats.
Rather than one individual behind a ransomware attack, there are multiple groups of individuals, similar
to a shared business model.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
For example, as shown in the image at right, a threat
actor may develop and deploy malware that gives
one threat actor access to a certain category of
victims, whereas a different threat actor may merely
deploy malware.
Post-breach response
Just as the criminal enterprise that deploys
ransomware typically involves several stakeholders
each with a particular responsibility, the response to
ransomware also involves several key stakeholders.
If a victim of a ransomware attack has cyber
insurance, that carrier will employ certain service
providers, including an incident response firm, a
law firm, and an organization specializing in ransom
negotiation. Even if a victim does not have a cyber
insurance policy, these stakeholders are common to
finding a resolution to the ransom.
Once a ransomware gang locks a victims’ network,
exfiltrates data, and holds the network and
data for ransom, an incident response team will
investigate the root cause of the breach and drive
remediation efforts depending on the victim’s level
of preparedness prior to the attack. If the victim has
sufficient backups of its data or data has not been
stolen, often the incident response team will work
to remove the threat actor from the victim’s system,
restore business operations, and apply future
mitigation measures. The incident response team
will often provide the victim a report which includes
root cause, criminal actor movement inside the
victim network, data exposure and exfiltration, and
remediation recommendations.
Depending on the jurisdiction of the victim, the
victim could be subject to data breach notification
requirements. A law firm will often assess the
exposure of the victim’s liability and assist the
victim with meeting its regulatory obligations.
Importantly, the law firm will interface with relevant
law enforcement, where appropriate. Finally, if a
victim is unable to return to business operations,
an organization specializing in negotiating with
ransomware criminal syndicates will work to obtain
the decryption key on behalf of the victim.
11
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email  Malware  Malicious domains  Adversarial machine learning
Stakeholders and roles involved in post-breach response
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
12
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Criminal economics: A
changing business model
The business model for ransomware has effectively
evolved into an intelligence operation; criminal
actors perform research on their target victim to
identify an optimal ransom demand. Once a criminal
actor infiltrates a network, they may exfiltrate and
study financial documents and insurance policies.
They may also understand the penalties associated
with local breach laws. The actors will then extort
money from their victims, to not only unlock their
systems, but also to prevent disclosure of the
victim’s exfiltrated data to the public. After they’ve
collected and analyzed this intelligence, the criminal
actor will identify an “appropriate” ransom amount.
The negotiation chat, at right, with a public school
district to extort cash in exchange for a decryption
key to unlock the Conti ransomware deployed on
its network demonstrates the research performed
by the criminal in advance of the negotiation.
Here, the criminal actor explains “we examined all
financial documents, bank statements for the last
year, insurance. And came to the conclusion that
you are exaggerating about poor financial condition
[sic]. We also calculated your possible losses from
lawsuits from both your staff and your students for
the leakage of their personal data. These fines will
exceed $30 million. We are not talking about the
loss of reputation, which in our opinion costs more.”
Ransomware negotiation chat
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
There are few barriers of entry into this criminal
enterprise. A cybercriminal does not need
specialized code development skills to profit from
this crime. The ransomware enterprise has evolved
into ransomware as a service driven by human
intelligence and research. It is no longer solely the
province of malware developers; rather, the business
structure is modular. Malware developers are
recruiting hackers with access to networks promising
a “cut” of the profit. Criminals can purchase malware
and access to specific networks and target specific
industries. This is effectively a crime syndicate where
each member is paid for a particular expertise.
In the example shown below, following the crypto
flows, we can see where a criminal enterprise split its
bitcoin “earnings” such that approximately 15% of
the earnings flowed to the developer/manager and
75% of the earnings flowed to the attacker.
Regardless of where ransomware is deployed,
typically the threat actors will demand payment via
cryptocurrency through crypto wallets. Although
the underlying blockchain technology facilitates
transparent cryptocurrency flows, the owners of
wallets remain pseudonymous. Nonetheless, they
still need to find on- and off-ramps into the crypto
ecosystem. At its core, the criminal actor needs
to append the blockchain with a transaction and
ultimately find a way to cash out. There are several
stakeholders within the cryptocurrency ecosystem
that facilitate ransom-related transactions and
payments. These intermediaries often exist in
jurisdictions with governments that are historically
unwilling to cooperate with the United States
and others. It’s these intermediaries that facilitate
the flow of ill-gotten earnings from ransomware.
The private sector through civil litigation, and
the government through prosecution, regulatory
enforcement, and international collaboration, can
take coordinated action against intermediaries to
disrupt the payment process.
SIDEBAR: TO PAY, OR NOT TO PAY?
In the aftermath of a ransomware attack, companies
are often completely offline—their security systems
tampered with, their backup systems deleted, their
data encrypted, and their users unable to log in.
When operations are offline and losses pile up, it
is important to remember that paying the ransom
demands does not guarantee the restoration of
operations, nor does paying prevent future attacks.
In addition, we have in effect, the classic “Tragedy
of the Commons” [ Note 4] — while it may make sense for
individual victims to pay for their own individual
benefit (restore critical business operations), the
payment also contributes to the growth of this
damaging model for everyone. Ransom payments
can keep the cycle turning, as described below:

The business model of extortionists gets

reinforced, which also attracts more bad actors
into the monetization strategy. Substantial
revenue is supplied to the actors who then use
part of it for research and development (R&D)
to improve their tooling and ability to buy
breach access to potential victim organizations.
Some ransomware teams have significant
amounts of funds for R&D and for buying high
end 0-days. For example, some ransomware
teams have budget to spend up to $1 million
USD, or more, per 0-day. While some high-end
ransomware teams buy 0-days, others focus
on traditional ways to gain remote access into
victims’ networks.

The ransomware tools become more automated

and effective, allowing the bad actors to
scale and accelerate their attacks—with more
sophistication and less effort.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
Victim ransom wallet is shown on the far left. The funds split to two different wallets on the far right.
Text intentionally blurred for publication
Note 4 Tragedy of the commons - Wikipedia
Transaction hash Bitcoin wallet addresses
14
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
EXAMPLE: CONTI RANSOMWARE
The Conti ransomware first appeared around July 2020 adopting the double extortion business model. In this
double extortion model, a victim is first extorted for ransom and for the possible publishing of their stolen
data. Conti is also a ransomware as a service (RaaS), which is a subscription-based service allowing affiliates
of the service ready access to ransomware-building tools and builds. Affiliates of the service agree to ransom
percentage payouts between the ransomware developer and threat actor who performed the exploitation. Conti
usually gains access to the victim network via other threats like Trickbot, IcedID, or Zloader. Once inside the
victim network, Conti has a configurable reconnaissance module where it can scan internal networks looking
for network shares and other high-value targets. Once deployed, Conti begins to encrypt user-modifiable data
and databases based on targeted file extension lists. Upon completion of the encryption, a ransom note is left in
every file directory with instructions for the user on how to contact the ransomware actors:
Ransom note
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
Important details to be aware of when making the
decision whether to pay ransoms:

On average, organizations that paid the ransom

got back only 65% of their data, with 29%
getting back no more than half their data. [ Note 5 ]

Ransom decryptors are buggy and regularly fail

to decrypt the largest, most critical data files
(files 4 GB+ in size).

Decrypting data files is a slow and labor

intensive process, most customers decrypt only
their most critical of data files and restore the
rest from backup.

Restoring data does not undo any tampering

performed by the attackers.

Restoring data does not secure systems to

prevent future attacks.

Organizations must understand the legality of

making payments in their country. Governments
across the globe are instituting ransomware
payment reporting requirements, may have
penalties for payments that are made to
sanctioned parties, and are considering laws
that could make ransom payments illegal.
Note 5 The State of Ransomware 2021 – Sophos News
Paying a ransom fuels the ransomware
syndicates
Paying a ransom gives the criminals more
resources to expand their operations, helping
them become more organized and specialized.
With more funding available, the groups
can improve their tools and code, enabling
ransomware to spread through networks
undetected by antivirus software.
15
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
The user must now upload the ransom note text file to the recovery site listed in the ransom note. The note
serves as proof of encryption and victim identification for the ransomware actors.
Ransom recovery site
Conti News site
After the ransom note is uploaded and verified and a chat session is initiated.
Chat session following ransom note upload
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
16
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
The negotiation phase starts with the threat actor, as they prove they can decrypt any files provided by the
victim. After a final ransom price is negotiated, the ransomware actor provides a Bitcoin wallet address for
the victim to send payment. Conti ransomware actors maintain recovery and news sites on regular top-level
domains (as on the open web) as well as on the dark web or Tor (also known as The Onion Router).
As part of the double extortion business model, the actors behind Conti maintain a news site, which serves as
the publishing site to prove that if the ransom is not paid, the victim’s private information will be posted publicly
and could be sold on the black market. The Conti News site currently lists hundreds of victims with various
samples of their private data.
Conti victims are located mostly in the United States and Europe and include public schools, healthcare
providers, manufacturing companies, US city governments, and even public utility providers.
What we’re seeing in ransomware data and signals
DEFENDER SIGNALS
Ransomware encounter rate (machine count): Enterprise customers Ransomware encounter rate (machine count): All customers
These charts show the overall increase in ransomware encounters, with notable surge to consumer and commercial encounters in late 2019, [ Note 6 ] when RaaS
started to grow, and in early 2020 at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. [ Note 7 ]
Note 6 https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2019/12/16/ransomware-response-to-pay-or-not-to-pay/ Note 7 https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2020/03/20/protecting-against-coronavirus-themed-phishing-attacks/
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
17
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Ransomware machine counts by country (July 2020-June 2021)
The stakes have changed. There is a massive
growth trajectory for ransomware and extortion.
DART DATA
While the Colonial Pipeline ransom attack of May 2021 drew considerable public attention, our Detection
and Response Team (DART) ransomware engagement data shows that the three most targeted sectors were
consumer, financial, and manufacturing. Despite continued promises from ransomware actors not to attack
hospitals or healthcare companies during a pandemic, healthcare remains in the top-five sectors victimized by
human-operated ransomware.
DART ransomware engagements by industry (July 2020-June 2021)
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
18
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
The stakes have changed. There is a massive growth trajectory for ransomware and extortion. To help protect
your organization from ransomware, we recommend that organizations:
Deploy ransomware protection
Prepare a recovery plan by making it harder to access and disrupt systems, which minimizes the monetary
incentives for ransomware attackers and makes it easier to recover from an attack without paying the ransom.
Limit the scope of damage by forcing the attackers to work harder to gain access to multiple business-critical
systems. Establish least-privilege access and adopt Zero Trust principles. These steps make it harder for an
attacker who gets in to a network to travel across the network to find valuable data to lock up. Also, encrypt
data at rest, and practice good backup-and-restore hygiene. This way, even if data is stolen it will be encrypted
and not very useful to the attackers. In the unfortunate event that the attacker does encrypt your data, you will
have a good backup to restore from and use to maintain business continuity.
Make it harder to get in by following basic cybersecurity hygiene steps that make it more difficult for attackers
to gain access to the network. The most important of these steps is the use of multifactor authentication (MFA),
which is important to raising friction for entry but will take time to complete as part of a larger security journey.
Other steps, such as keeping up to date on patching and correct configuration, can be taken to identify and
close off vulnerable entry points.
Note 8 Ransomware Playbook - Cyber Readiness Institute
Use the phases as a starting plan for what to do first, next, and later to get the most impactful elements first.
These recommendations have been prioritized using the Zero Trust principle of assume breach, which focuses
on minimizing business risk by assuming the attackers can successfully gain access to your environment through
one or more methods.
Microsoft supports the guidance presented in the Ransomware Playbook by the Cyber Readiness Institute. [ Note 8 ]
Learn more:
3 steps to prevent and recover from ransomware Microsoft Security blog | (9/7/2021)
Rapidly protect against ransomware and extortion Microsoft Docs | (8/24/2021)
Azure Sentinel Fusion Detection for Ransomware (microsoft.com) (8/9/2021)
The growing threat of ransomware - Microsoft On the Issues (7/20/2021)
Human-operated ransomware Microsoft Docs | (5/27/2021)
Ransom mafia analysis of the world's first ransomware cartel pdf (analyst1.com) (4/7/2021)
Ransomware Playbook - Cyber Readiness Institute
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
19
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning