Koshara × 1xBet
Launched together 100 camrips
The average cost of voiceover services for one episode amounted
to about $55. [11] For a movie already released online, the cost was
$65-$70. 1xBet spent between $5,000 and $8,300 on average
per month on sponsoring voiceover studios and creating camrips
in the post-Soviet region.
If we look at the history of camrips, the average cost of produсing
one camrip amounted to between $400 and $1,000 (depending
on the copy’s quality and the content’s popularity).
As for integrating ads into the pre-rolls of pirate CDNs, collaboration has been ongoing since 2016. As such, 1xBet ads have been
placed on more than 80% of all pirate resources in post-Soviet
countries.
The total number of content items voiced over with 1xBet’s support in post-Soviet countries amounts to over 900 (movies and
TV series).
Beginning of interaction with Koshara/Octopus team
In February 2019, the group Koshara started acting
as an intermediary between 1xBet and voiceover studios. Around
the same time, this release-group began creating camrips with
hardcoded 1xBet ads for post-Soviet countries.
Koshara still makes its own camrips regardless of 1xBet, which
is why 1xBet ads often appear several times in different versions
of a camrip. The first time is when a voiceover studio edits
an overseas camrip; the second time is when a camrip is created
locally.
In addition to producing content, Koshara commits to distributing
content by placing it on more than eight major torrent tracker
services (including its own website) and uploading it to two CDNs
after the content is released.
Since 1xBet started working with Koshara, over 100 camrips have
been released, which amounts to an average of three per week.
11 The costs shown are for the post-Soviet region; content production
costs for India are unknown.
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
The economics of illegal resources 53
Piracy connections worldwide
1xBet.com traffic map (according to similarweb.com)
1xBet started creating content for overseas countries in 2018.
Total camrip releases: over 500.
Total titles covered: over 270.
Distribution by language:
              - 100% of camrips are in English;

             - 14% of camrips are in Spanish;

              - 5% of camrips are in other languages (Tamil,

Portuguese, Thai, Hindi, and others).
On average, 1xBet released four camrip versions of films per week.
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
The economics of illegal resources 54