Captured network traffic during the infection
A TCP stream from traffic capture between the infected host and C&C server at the time of the infection
below shows that the n3 file was consequently downloaded and run on the target system.
Figure 4. TCP stream from network traffic between the infected host and C&C server
Figure 5. TCP communication stream after the infection
After the infection, the communication shows that it joined the bot’s IRC channel and assigned nickname and
server configuration information. Modifying Domain Name System (DNS) settings should show and confirm
that a real target is involved (not just the honeypot) and that it has visibility to the internet. It also shows the
number of processor cores and the type of processor. It also discloses that the Splunk is running on the host
by using the command “ cat /etc/passwd/ ” with filtered output. This is to notify the admins that the target
device is being monitored or if it has an antivirus (AV) solution installed.
It is followed by PING/PONG communication (where the IRC server occasionally sends a PING message,
which requires the response of a PONG message to prevent getting disconnected) to keep the communication
channel open.
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/perl-based-shellbot-looks-to-target-organizations-via-cc/ 4/11
5/12/2020 Perl-Based Shellbot Looks to Target Organizations via C&C - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Figure 6. Separate information are sent to IRC admins
There is a list of hardcoded process names Shellbot is assigned when run. These help hide the running bot
from system admins, security monitoring, and researchers.
Figure 7. Screenshot from Shellbot’s configuration file with the available process names
Once the Shellbot is running on a target system, the administrator of the IRC channel can send various
commands to the host. The list includes commands to perform a port scan, perform various forms of
distributed denial of service (DDoS), download a file, get information about other machines, or just send the
operating system (OS) information and list of certain running processes on the C&C server.