Analysis of the Novter malware
Novter is a backdoor in the form of an executable file. Immediately after its execution,it performs the
following anti-debugging and anti-analysis checks:


Searching for blacklisted processes and modules by comparing the CRC32 algorithms of their
names with a list of hardcoded CRC32s


Checking if the number of cores is too small


Checking if the process is being debugged


Checking if the Sleep function is being manipulated


If it finds any of aforementioned information, it is then reported to the C&C server. Note that it uses
different sets of C&C servers for different purposes. One set, for instance, is solely used for anti-analysis
reporting. After the affected machine’s environment is double-checked and reported, the malware goes to
sleep for a long time.
Figure 2. Snippets of code showing how anti-analysis information is reported to the C&C server (top), and
how the malware is configured to sleep for a certain duration
The malware then performs the following routines:

Disable processes related to Windows Defender and Windows updates

Set persistence through the following:


Dropping a randomly named .HTA file to %APPDATA%\Roaming, where the routine body
contains a hardcoded string with .HTA file contents and %s markers, which are replaced
with randomly generated strings at runtime. This .HTA file contains JavaScript code,
which reads and executes a PowerShell payload from registry.


Creating three randomly named registry subkeys in HKLM or HKCU (based on account
privileges) SOFTAWARE\ . The first two registry subkeys have
hardcoded templates in the malware body, and the %s strings are randomized in a way
similarly to how it was done in the .HTA file.




The code stored in both registry subkeys are actually PowerShell scripts. The first script reads
and executes the second script, which is obfuscated by abusing EmpireProject’s Invoke-PSInject
open-source project. The third subkey contains the hex-encoded binary of the dropper, as
shown in Figure 5.
Figure 3. Code snippet showing the PowerShell script stored in the registry subkeys
Figure 4. Code snippet showing how the malware is linked in the Run registry key
- Creating a randomly named link to the .HTA file in the Run registry key, which executes

PowerShell code stored in the first registry subkey. This executes the PowerShell code
stored in the second registry subkey, which then loads the binary file stored in the third
registry subkey. Infection from the next reboot of the system thus becomes fileless.

Start a thread that parses an embedded configuration in JSON format and starts regular

heartbeat communication — beacons that informs attackers that the infected machine is
alive/working — by sending empty POST requests with the “accl” servers specified in the
configuration file
Figure 5. Code snippet showing the “accl” servers specified in the configuration file (top), and how the
configuration file is retrieved (bottom)

Start a thread that queries the “acll” server (shown in Figure 7) to get the dynamic configuration

file. The request interval is six hours; the configuration file is encrypted by RC4 with a hardcoded
password.

Start a thread that constantly queries the C&C server, and execute a command, if requested, via

the ShellExecute function.

Start communication with one of “accl” servers specified in the dynamic configuration file.

Communication is RC4-encrypted with a hardcoded password. However, this password is
different from the thread where the configuration file is updated.
The backdoor commands that Novter supports are:
  - killall — Terminate a process and delete a file (for all modules)

  - kill — Terminate a process and delete a file (for a specific module)

  - stop — Terminate process without deleting its file (for a specific module)

  - resume — Start a process (for a specific module)

  - modules — Download and execute an additional module

  - update — Download a new version and install the update

  - update_interval — Set an interval between two consecutive update attempts
