Area 9: Information and data management in a crisis
FA2.KF14 The initial impact assessment was
hindered due to the absence of an HSE-wide
incident severity matrix
There was no integrated HSE-wide Incident
Classification and Severity Matrix to guide the initial
impact assessment following the attack. The ‘HSE
Risk Impact Table’ in the HSE Incident Management
Framework lists five impact levels from Negligible to
Extreme across eight different categories. [261] While
those categories reflect a spectrum of operational,
financial, compliance and reputational impacts, there
was no evidence to indicate that the initial impact
assessment conducted during the ransomware attack
was based on this guidance and subsequently used
to inform decisions made and actions taken. There
was also no evidence provided of an Incident Severity
Matrix for IT or cyber incidents, specifically.
The Managing a Major Incident document is designed
to be used in a ‘critical’ incident that attracts ‘ more
attention or has a greater impact than “normal” critical
incidents ’; [262] however, there were no associated
definitions for those thresholds. It was also unclear
how the impact assessment from an IT incident
would be aligned with that of the ‘HSE Risk Impact
Table’. In the absence of an integrated HSE-wide
Incident Classification and Severity Matrix (see also
finding FA2.KF12), response teams did not have
clear thresholds and criteria to assess the (actual
and potential) business, operational, financial and
reputational impacts of the cyber incident. As a result,
the initial response centred on understanding ‘the
what’, rather than quantifying the impact to inform
and set the strategic response strategy for effective
decision making.
258 M_HSE_Intrusion Investigation Report - REDACTED (FINAL).pdf, 2021
259 Minutes of Cyber Attack MI Meeting 10 am - 14052021
260 Site Workshop 9 (Hospital H)
261 HSE-2020-incident-management-framework-guidance
262 Managing a Major Incident v1 1 and IT Security Incident Plan
79 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
FA2.KR14 Develop an integrated HSE-wide
incident classification and severity matrix for
assessing the organisational impact of an incident
(see strategic recommendation 4.2 in section 4)
The HSE should ensure it includes clear criteria to
determine the level of actual and/or potential likely
impacts of the Incident, and align with or supersede
the ‘HSE Risk Impact Table’. [263] It should consider
specific impact categories - operational, clinical,
reputational, financial, regulatory/legal - and a method
for estimating impact based on impact and likelihood.
This should be embedded across all organisational
response plans and align with any technical severity
matrices, such as those in a technical cyber response
plan, to support consistency in response. This will
ensure responders are using a consistent approach to
anticipating immediate, ongoing and future impacts
to support a shared situational awareness.
FA2.KF15 The lack of pre-defined information
sharing processes led to inefficiencies in the
creation of a shared understanding of the Incident
As mentioned in finding FA2.KF12, the tools and
processes introduced by the Defence Forces on
18 May, enabled a more efficient meeting tempo
and information management. Information sharing
channels with HGs and CHOs via nominated liaison
officers and coordinators subsequently also took
shape. [264]
Several stakeholders noted that the sheer number
of coordination and information sharing meetings
required placed a strain on several critical HSE
stakeholders, who struggled to attend all meetings
and/or action response and recovery tasks. [265]
Interviewees from several HGs and CHOs also
reported that some initial meetings with the HSE
were time consuming, oversubscribed and, at times,
difficult to follow. [266] A recurring theme was that
technical jargon generated confusion and delayed
decisions and actions. The lack of in-report standards
and a clear definition of what constituted ‘Red’,
‘Amber’ and ‘Green’ also led to initial confusion. [267]
There were instances when HGs and CHOs sent
requests for clarification and further support, but did
not receive a response and were unclear about how
to proceed. [268] Similarly, some hospital stakeholders
cited an example where ICT staff had been deployed
to their site to clean laptops, but the hospital
leadership were unaware that they were present and
were still trying to work with the HSE to organise their
attendance. [269] These differing understandings may
also have been compounded by use of unapproved
or informal channels for communicating with
stakeholders; for example many interviewees noted
they resorted to individualised phone calls, WhatsApp
and text messages to relay or obtain information first
hand where relationships existed. [270, 271]
FA2.KR15 Designate and train incident information
managers (or coordinators) at all levels across
an incident or crisis response to maintain a
consistent overview of the situation as it develops
(see strategic recommendation 4.2 in section 4)
Further to recommendation FA2.KR12, the HSE
should ensure that each workstream beneath the
SITCEN, at every command level and workstream,
has an information manager (or coordinator)
appointed as part of the Incident response team.
This role should be implemented in all local hospital
response teams, Regional/Area CMTs, and within
each HSE workstream up to the NCMT. As the
information manager completes their expected role
(digesting all information to gain a view of the endto-end incident), they should escalate their status
and update upwards (as with the SITREPs). This will
allow the SITCEN information manager to articulate
one consolidated account of events, decisions and
actions which will achieve situational awareness
across all teams and parties involved.
To embed this capability the HSE should train those
who have been assigned the role of information
manager/coordinator and complete multi-team
exercises to rehearse information sharing between
teams to maintain situational awareness. Templates
created as a result of the ransomware attack should
be further developed and embedded into scenariospecific response plans, in order to support the
information managers in their role. This structure and
format should be used in all teams and work streams
to maintain consistency.
263 HSE-2020-incident-management-framework-guidance
264 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
265 Programme RAID log
266 Programme RAID log
267 Lessons Learned_ Programme Lessons v0.2
268 Site Workshop 11 (Hospital A)
269 Site Workshop 7 (Hospital G- identifier to be removed from final report)
270 Site Workshop 1 (CHO B)
271 Site Workshop 10 (Hospital I)
80 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
FA2.KF16 There was no pre-agreed ‘out-of-band’
technology solution to support coordination,
collaboration and information sharing during a
crisis response
The HSE’s communications and information sharing
platforms were severely impacted by the attack. A
patchwork of technology solutions were brought
together to address this gap. The NCSC introduced
  - a secure online chat and file sharing

platform - to support the HSE in coordinating and
collaborating during the initial incident response. The
HSE set up ‘clean’ email accounts for a handful of
key responders on a new HSEmail.ie domain [272] and
leadership issued a special derogation and guidelines
for HSE staff to use personal emails for information
sharing. [273]
The Defence Force SITCEN Information Manager
established a directory and information sharing
structure on a Teams instance to facilitate centralised
coordination, collaboration and information sharing;
however, it was noted that not all workstreams were
storing their documentation in the Teams instance. [274]
More widely, HSE staff defaulted to the use of
WhatsApp, text message and phone calls to share
information. Stakeholders from HGs and CHOs also
noted in interviews that, in some instances, they
procured their own domains and IT infrastructure in
order to communicate and share information. [275]
This ad hoc approach ultimately provided a means by
which to share information; however, these solutions
had not been pre-agreed, risk assessed or authorised
for use by the HSE during ‘prepare’ phases prior
to the Incident, nor were incident responders and
staff made aware before the Incident that they
should be used. As a result, the HSE, HGs and
CHOs lacked a centralised and secure information
sharing, collaboration and coordination platform from
the outset of the Incident. This impeded the initial
response efforts, as well as leading to a long data
remediation tail (see also finding FA2.KF23).
272 RAID Log, HSEmail.ie was agreed on 17 May 2021
273 Letter to all Staff - 1 on 26 May 2021
274 Lessons Learned_ Programme Lessons v0.2
275 Site Workshop 11 (Hospital A)
276 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
277 Clinical Risk Group Workshop
278 Site Workshop 4 (Hospital E)
279 Site Workshop 11 (Hospital A)
280 20210524-Morning Update Brief - FINAL
281 20210525-Morning Update Brief - FINAL
FA2.KR16 Identify and acquire a secure and
resilient ‘out-of-band’ technology solution to
ensure an alternative means of information
sharing and communication (see tactical
recommendation 3.1 in section 4)
The HSE should ensure that the platform can
facilitate email, file sharing, call hosting and the
dissemination of communications to all staff and
segmented audiences, and enable all responders to
see situations reports, actions and decisions logs
and other information necessary to support a shared
understanding of the Incident.