The Infrastructure of a Typical Oil and Gas Company
Most of the best understood attacks against the oil industry are initial attempts to break into the corporate
networks of oil companies. We will discuss several of these attacks in this paper. At the outset, it is
important to understand the complete oil and gas production chain and what risks are involved in those
areas. This section will discuss these concerns in detail.
The production chain, from exploring oil to producing end products like gasoline for cars, is oftentimes
divided into three parts: upstream, midstream, and downstream . Processes that are related to oil
exploration and production are generally referred to as upstream. Transportation and storage of crude oil
through pipelines, trains, ships, or trucks are referred to as midstream. And downstream is the production
of end products. Cyber risks are present in all three categories, but for midstream and upstream, there are
few publicly documented incidents.
A typical oil company has production sites where crude oil is extracted from wells, tank farms where the
oil is stored temporarily, and a transportation system to bring the crude oil to a refinery. Transportation
may include pipelines, trains, and ships. After processing in the refinery, different end products like diesel
fuel, gasoline, and jet fuel are transported to tank farms and the products are later shipped to customers.
A typical gas company also has production sites and a transportation system like pipelines, railroads, and
ships. But it also needs compressor stations where the natural gas is compressed to a specific pressure
to be ready for transport. The natural gas is transported to a separation plant that separates different
hydrocarbon components from natural gas, like LPG and cooking gas. The different gasses are later
transported to customers using pipelines, trains, and ships.
5 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
In the whole chain — from oil and gas production to refineries to the several hydrocarbon end products —
constant monitoring is crucial for performance measurement, performance improvement, quality control,
and safety. Monitoring metrics include temperature, pressure, chemical composition, and detection of
leaks. Some oil and gas production sites are in very remote locations where the weather can be extreme. In
particular for these sites, communication of the monitored metrics over the air, fixed (optic or copper) lines,
or satellite is important. Likewise, remote control of on-site equipment such as valves, pumps, hydraulic
and pneumatic control systems, safety instrumented systems (SISs), emergency stop systems, and fire
detection equipment are crucial. All of the systems are controlled by software and can be compromised
by an attacker.
Availability of these systems is key and there is usually no incentive for confidentiality. The communication
of both control messages and the monitoring data is oftentimes not encrypted and not even signed
for data integrity. This means that there are multiple theoretical attacks possible: sending attacker
commands to control systems, injecting commands, changing sensor data, and replay attacks, among
others. Fortunately, attackers are not likely to use these methods because the impact is limited by built-in
mechanical safety measures that prevent hazardous situations. Also, many of these attacks would require
the actor to be close to the oil well or refinery. There are only a few public reports on compromises of
industrial control systems (ICSs) in the oil and gas industry, and some that describe attacks against SISs in
refineries. [7, 8]
The more urgent threats oil and gas companies are facing come from several advanced attacker groups
who are focused on this industry. Among these groups are the same actors who usually attack the military
and defense industry. These attackers have geopolitical impact and espionage in mind, and in some
cases are aiming to deploy destructive attacks.
Theft of intellectual property and industrial espionage are dangerous threats to oil companies too. Among
valuable intellectual property typically held by these companies are the location of new proven oil reserves
that are not in production yet, techniques of effective drilling, and the chemical composition of additives
in premium car gasoline.
In the succeeding sections, we will discuss the internet-related threats that are relevant to the oil and gas
industry. We will also give recommendations for defending oil and gas companies against each threat.
6 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry