Focus area 2 conclusion
Despite a lack of pre-prepared structures and
processes, the HSE exhibited an agile and reactive
response to the Conti ransomware attack in May
2021. Prior learnings, behaviours and processes,
many of which were exercised during the COVID-19
response, were leveraged to ensure critical systems
and processes were recovered, and to deliver safety
critical patient care across the country. The lengths
to which staff and vendors went to keep patients
safe and facilitate a recovery within the operating
constraints is a direct reflection of the leadership that
was employed during this crisis. The behaviours,
structures and processes designed reactively during
the response to the attack should be leveraged and
embedded into new crisis structures, to ensure the
HSE is better able to respond at pace to future risks
when they materialise.
Individuals within the HSE have described it as an
organisation constantly responding to crises. To date,
the HSE’s approach to preparedness for disruptive
events has been driven through the Major Emergency
Management Framework. Events previously in
scope of the Framework can be categorised as short
term, national events caused by adverse weather
or accidents, which created a temporary surge in
demand on the HSE’s clinical and acute services.
The normalisation of crisis events in the HSE has
generated a sense of over confidence throughout
the organisation, whereby the forward planning has
become restricted to contingencies for predictable or
recognisable threats and risks. Specifically, the HSE’s
crisis planning has been based on the assumption
that all critical infrastructure and processes would
be available to support a crisis response. There was
therefore no contingency planning for a cyber attack,
or any other scenario involving the denial or loss of
infrastructure, people, or facilities.
Prior to the cyber attack, outside of the Major
Emergency Management Framework, there was no
integrated organisation-wide Crisis Management
Framework in place to deal with a major internal
crisis event. In the absence of documented plans,
the HSE’s COVID-19 response imparted a degree
of inherent preparedness, which manifested itself in
a flexible and agile response from all of its people
across all levels. However, the structures required
to respond to the crisis caused by the ransomware
attack were only achieved with assistance from the
Defence Forces in the weeks following the attack.
The lack of pre-planned contingencies contributed
to increased levels of stress and fatigue in HSE staff
during the initial stages of the response and recovery.
The HSE requires a Crisis Management Framework,
which sits alongside the MEM Framework, but with a
separate focus on responding to crises which do not
necessitate an interagency response.
Clinical and services continuity has not been a
corporate priority in the HSE until recently, when
enterprise risk management and clinical and services
continuity were consolidated under the National
Director for Governance and Risk. Consequently
the level of clinical and services continuity and
crisis preparedness across the organisation varies
significantly. Due to a historic lack of governance and
oversight, a fragmented and incoherent clinical and
services continuity capability has evolved across the
organisation. This delayed the implementation of an
initial coherent response and recovery effort during
the Incident.
There are many learnings to be taken from any
response to an incident this significant. The HSE
must expand upon initiatives already taken and
implement a coherent operational resilience
capability, including clinical and services continuity
and crisis management, across the organisation. Key
actions for the HSE to take to establish organisationwide preparedness to significant incidents and crises
disrupting its operations include:
• Define the governance arrangements and
structures to ensure clear and ongoing oversight,
323 “Gold, Silver, Bronze” is industry standard phraseology to refer to strategic/tactical/operational level decision making bodies in
emergency and crisis management
89 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
management, and reporting of the operational
resilience disciplines, with a particular focus on
implementation and integration of the crisis and
clinical and services continuity disciplines;
• Establish the Crisis Management Framework,
detailing levels of response and supporting teams
and processes to manage any significant incident
or disruption impacting HSE operations;
• Develop supporting crisis documentation,
including strategic, tactical and operational
plans, procedures, tools and templates; scenario
specific playbooks for pre-defined threats and
risks, supported by clearly defined clinical and
services continuity strategies, a resourcing
assessment and cost base analysis of chosen
solutions;
• Cascade the Framework, tools and templates
throughout the organisation, and to HGs and
CHOs, to ensure a coherent and standardised
response across all parties involved in a crisis
response;
• Embed crisis management and clinical and
services continuity across the organisation by
establishing a formalised HSE-wide training and
exercising programme and schedule to develop
awareness, familiarity, and competence for all
stakeholders involved in incident response.
90 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.