CONCLUSION
The malware campaigns—Operation Arid Viper
and Advtravel—discussed in detail in this paper are
separate but closely linked. Operation Arid Viper
targets specific Israeli organizations, including some
high-profile victims, using a network infrastructure
in Germany with several strong ties to Gaza in
Palestine.
Advtravel, meanwhile, has more connections—
possible culprits and victims alike—to Egypt.
However, based on IP address logins, we again saw
connections to the Gaza Strip.
While the two campaigns shared infrastructure,
their tactics could not be further apart. Operation
Arid Viper is a sophisticated campaign targeting
key individuals in organizations in order to exfiltrate
sensitive data. Its C&C servers were, in fact, closely
locked down, providing very little hint that could aid
our investigation.
Advtravel, on the other hand, looks very much like the
work of less-skilled cybercriminals who appeared to
be motivated neither by financial gain nor conducting
espionage. Instead, they look like a classic group of
beginner hackers just starting their careers.
Yet it remains intriguing to note the close ties between
Operations Arid Viper and Advtravel, apart from signs
of Arabic heritage. We cannot know for sure if the
people behind the campaigns operate as separate
groups or as individuals though we suspect they are
part of a larger organization. Several organizations
with ties to both Gaza and Egypt, for instance,
the Muslim Brotherhood—a transnational Islamist
organization founded in Egypt in 1928, exist. The
brotherhood was legalized in Egypt in 2011 and won
the parliamentary elections before the army overthrew
it in 2013. In 1987, brotherhood-affiliated charities
established the Islamic Resistance Movement,
better known as “Hamas,” an infamous Palestinian
organization that has been controlling the Gaza Strip
since around 2007.
Whoever the real culprits are, it is clear that they
are part of the Arab world, evidence of a budding
generation of Arab hackers and malware creators
intent on taking down their chosen adversaries.
Some of the black hats—be they mercenaries or
cybersoldiers—are actively targeting countries such
as Israel due to political motivations. We have seen all
of the ingredients of a cyberskirmish guerrilla war that
goes unnoticed by mainstream IT security media.
Beyond these specific campaigns, what we found
most interesting was that we had disparate groups of
Arab aggressors who used the same infrastructure
to launch and monitor attacks. This can possibly
mean two things—the attacks were somehow
linked, something that appears unlikely given their
nature and motivation, or a supra-organization that
provides means for Arab parties to commit acts of
cyberviolence exists, which appears to be the more
probable option.
If our theory holds, we will see a host of cyber attacks
with detrimental results stem from Arab countries
in the near future. Internet users will be stuck in the
middle of a battlefield they do not care much for.
We can only offer well-informed inferences on
attribution for now. Nevertheless, one thing is
very clear—whether the malware involved was
sophisticated and stealthy or basic and created by
beginners, they both had devastating effects on their
victims. Trend Micro will always continue to uncover
such threats in order to make the world safe for the
exchange of digital information.
ii © 2015 Trend Micro Incorporated
Operation Arid Viper Research Paper