Conclusion
In this blog, we showed that ONI and the newly discovered MBR-ONI stem from the
same threat actor, shed light on the threat actor’s modus operandi and gave context
that can better explain these supposed ransomware attacks. While both ONI and MBR
ONI clearly exhibit all the characteristics of ransomware, we provided arguments that
support our suspicion that the attackers might have intended to use them as wipers
rather than ransomware. We do not dismiss the possibility that financial gain was the
motive behind these attacks. However, given the nature of the attacks and the profile of
the targeted companies, other motives should not be dismissed lightly.
While the ONI attacks presented in this blog are specific to Japan, we believe they also
point to a concerning global trend. Using ransomware in targeted hacking operations is
still quite uncommon compared to the popularity of ransomware in the overall cyber
threat landscape. In recent years, though, there have been increased reports about
ransomware and wipers used in targeted attacks carried out by cybercriminals and
nation-states. Examples of these ransomware and/or wipers include: PetWrap, Mamba,
SamSam, NotPetya, Shamoon and Bad Rabbit.
We also discussed how threat actors abuse legitimate tools like DiskCryptor and
Ammyy Admin and use them for malicious purposes. This further emphasizes the fine
line between publicly available tools and malware. In many cases, this distinction can
only be determined by figuring out the operator’s intent. For instance, MBR-ONI
borrows a large portion of its code from DiskCryptor. With some code modification, a
legitimate disk encryption utility can be turned into ransomware or even a destructive
wiper.
Research by: Assaf Dahan, Kohei Fujikawa, Tomonori Sawamura.
Special thanks to Uri Sternfeld, Philip Tsukerman and Niv Yona for their insights.
Learn how Cybereason can help your security team gain deeper attack insight while
significantly reducing analysis times.
GET A DEMO
ransomware, cyber attack, Cyber Security, Cybereason, wiper, Oni, MBR-Oni