Connections to Android malware variants
In addition to uncovering new campaigns, we were also able to find connections between MuddyWater
and four Android malware variants that posed as legitimate applications. We were able to establish proof
of connection through their shared infrastructure, e.g., IP addresses and C&C servers, and the code
similarities between some of the malware families.
We first noticed the first Android malware variant (AndroidOS_Mudwater.HRX) when we discovered that
its IP address and C&C server, 78[.]129[.]139[.]131, was used as the final C&C server of a MuddyWater
campaign. In the said campaign, we saw victims receiving commands for downloading a second stage
payload from the abovementioned IP address.
Apart from custom stealing capabilities, AndroidOS_Mudwater.HRX has two other interesting features:


Brute forces hardcoded IP addresses (with a list of usernames and passwords).


Spreads malicious apps by sending all contacts an SMS (in Turkish) containing a link to the
malicious APK. The link points to an APK in the directory tree of a legitimate website belonging to
a non-profit research organization in Turkey. Most likely, the organization’s website was
compromised, which is not surprising as its website was hosted on WordPress, a platform
MuddyWater is fond of targeting.


Figure 14. List of commands supported by the newer version of the malicious app
We found a connection between AndroidOS_Mudwater.HRX and the second malware variant
(AndroidOS_HiddenApp.SAB) based on similarities in their code structure. The figure below shows these
similarities.
10
Figure 15. List of commands supported by the older version of the malicious app
The second malware variant is a custom stealer that implements features for stealing call logs, contacts,
SMS messages, phone information, and screenshots. It posts all stolen data to a Telegram channel. Like
the previously mentioned variant, we found hints in the file that shows that it might be a test version.
We then discovered shared signed certificates that connect AndroidOS_HiddenApp.SAB and the third
malware variant (AndroidOS_Androrat.AXM). Its C&C server is a local IP address, which led us to think
that our detected sample is a test version.
Meanwhile, we saw the connection of Droidjack RAT — the fourth malware variant
(AndroidOS_Androrat.AXMA) — to MuddyWater in the domain name of the former’s C&C server
(googleads[.]hopto[.]org), which shares C&C servers with some DELPHSTATS samples that we analyzed.
A Droidjack RAT variant is a remote access trojan that allows attackers to take full control of an Android
device when installed.