Foreword
This report reviews an ongoing cyber-attack campaign dating back to mid-2014. Additional sources indicate
this campaign may date as far back as 2011. We call this campaign Thamar Reservoir, named after one of
the targets, Thamar E. Gindin [1], who exposed new information about the attack and is currently assisting with
the investigation.
The campaign includes several different attacks with the aim of taking over the target’s computer or gain
access to their email account. We estimate that this access is used for espionage or other nation-state
interests, and not for monetary gain or hacktivism. In some cases, the victim is not the final target; the
attackers use the infected computer, email, or stolen credentials as a platform to further attack their
intended target.
The attackers are extremely persistent in their attempts to breach their targets. These attempts include:


Breaching trusted websites to set up fake pages


Multi-stage malware


Multiple spear phishing emails based on reconnaissance and information gathering.


Phone calls to the target.


Messages on social networks.


While very successful in their attacks, the attackers are clearly not technically sophisticated. They are not
new to hacking, but do make various mistakes, such as grammatical errors, exposure of attack infrastructure,
easy to bypass anti analysis techniques, lack of code obfuscation, and more.
These mistakes enabled us to learn about their infrastructure and methods. More importantly, we have
learned of 550 targets, most of them in the Middle East, from various fields: research about diplomacy,
Middle East and Iran, international relations, and other fields; Defense and security; Journalism and human
rights; and more.
Various characteristics of the attacks and their targets bring us to the conclusion that the threat actors are
Iranian. In addition, we note that these attacks share characteristics with previously documented activities:


Attacks conducted using the Gholee malware, which we discovered.


Attacks reported by Trend Micro in Operation Woolen-Goldfish.


Attacks conducted by the Ajax Security Team as documented by FireEye.


Attacks seen during Newscaster as documented by iSight.


For further details and questions, or if you think you are a victim please contact us at:
info [at] clearskysec.com
1 Dr. Gindin is an expert on Iranian linguistics and Pre-Islamic Iran, renowned lecturer and research fellow at the Ezri
Center for Iran and Persian Gulf Research in the University of Haifa.
http://www.thmrsite.com/?page_id=198

© Clearsky - Cyber security. clearskysec.com
Page 3 of 18