Timeline
Before continuing, it’s worth highlighting our research and others relating to the intrusion set that
we refer to as PKPLUG. This section documents prior work surrounding cyber attacks relating to
PKPLUG. The following figure illustrates the chronological order of the publications — highlighting
some key findings from each.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/pkplug_chinese_cyber_espionage_group_attacking_asia/ 2/9
10/4/2019 PKPLUG: Chinese Cyber Espionage Group Attacking Asia
As you can see from the timeline, PKPLUG has been active for six years or more with a variety of
targets and methods of delivery and compromise.
Figure 1. Timeline of publications and key findings relating to PKPLUG
Please note: the dates shown on the horizontal timeline bar in Figure 1 above relate to the
publishing date, not the campaign dates, although some were fairly close together. As an
example to illustrate the difference in dates, HenBox was discovered in 2018 but has samples
ranging from 2015 through to this week. PlugX and Poison Ivy are still doing the rounds and their
use by different groups is well known. Whether they relate to PKPLUG is another matter.
#1: In November 2013, Blue Coat Labs published a report describing a case of attacks against
Mongolian targets using PlugX malware. Like so many other attacks using PlugX over the past
decade or more, Blue Coat noted the DLL side-loading technique used to launch the malicious
payload via legitimate, signed applications. Their report also documented the group’s use of an
exploit against software vulnerabilities in Microsoft Office. In this case, using a weaponized Word
document saved as a Single File Web Page format — usually having an mht file extension — in
order to exploit CVE-2012-0158 to drop and execute a signed WinRAR SFX archive containing
the side-loading package and PlugX payload. Considering all the malware related to PKPLUG
that Unit 42 has analyzed, the use of such exploits appears to be less common than a spear
phishing technique making use of social engineering to lure victims into running their malware.
#2: A report published in April 2016 by Arbor Networks detailed recent cyber attacks using Poison
Ivy malware against targets in Myanmar and other countries in Asia over the previous twelve
months.
They noted phishing emails using ASEAN membership, economics and democracy-related topics
to weaponize documents delivering the Poison Ivy payloads. While Arbor didn’t know the exact
victims, they inferred suspect targets based on the content of emails and associated malware.
DLL side-loading was also mentioned as the method to install the malware.
#3: Unit 42 published research that reported attacks using the 9002 Trojan delivered through
Google Drive. The download originated with a spear-phishing email containing a shortened URL
that redirected multiple times before downloading a ZIP file hosted on Google Drive. The
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/pkplug_chinese_cyber_espionage_group_attacking_asia/ 3/9
10/4/2019 PKPLUG: Chinese Cyber Espionage Group Attacking Asia
redirection using HTTP also contains information about the victim who received the spear-phish
and clicked the link. In this case, the information related to a well-known politician and human
rights activist in Myanmar. The filename of the ZIP archive also related to initiatives in the country,
as did the decoy document contents. The ZIP file contained a DLL side-loading package abusing
a Real Player executable signed by RealNetworks, Inc. in order to load the 9002 payload.
#4: In March 2017, researchers published a report in Japanese (later translated into English) that
described attacks seen by VKRL — a Hong Kong-based cybersecurity company — that were
using spear-phishing emails with URLs using GeoCities Japan to deliver malware. The content of
the website contained encoded VBScript that executed PowerShell commands to download a
Microsoft Word document from the same GeoCities site, as well as another encoded PowerShell
script closely resembling PowerSploit — a PowerShell post-exploitation framework for pentesters
that’s available on GitHub — that was responsible for decoding and launching a Poison Ivy
payload.
Another GeoCities account was found hosting similar packages, including one targeting Mongolia
based on the contents of the decoy documents. The contents of the file, assuming a victim clicked
on the URL in the spear-phishing email, resembles the structure used in a technique known as
AppLocker Bypass whereby trusted Windows executables can be used to execute malicious
payloads.
#5: In early 2018, Unit 42 discovered a new Android malware family that we named “HenBox” and
is tracking over 400 related samples dating back as far as late 2015, and continuing to present
day. HenBox often masquerades as legitimate Android apps and appears to primarily target the
Uyghurs — a minority Turkic ethnic group that is primarily Muslim and lives mainly in the Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region in Northwest China and also targets devices made by Chinese
manufacturer Xiaomi.
Smartphones are the dominant form of internet access in the region and hence make good
targets for such malware. Once installed, HenBox steals information from a myriad of sources on
the device including harvesting outgoing phone calls to numbers with an “+86” prefix — the
country code for the PRC — and accessing the device microphone and cameras.
During investigations, data revealed an older version of HenBox had been downloaded from the
uyghurapps[.]net website, which appears to be third-party Android app store serving the Uyghur
community based on the domain name, language of the site and app content hosted. HenBox
was masquerading as an another app — DroidVPN — which was also embedded within HenBox
and installed post-infection.
6: Based on further investigations and pivoting around HenBox infrastructure, Unit 42 discovered
a previously-unknown Windows backdoor Trojan called Farseer. Farseer also uses the DLL side
loading technique to install payloads — this time favoring a signed Microsoft executable from
VisualStudio to appear benign. A VBScript component is used, via a registry persistence hook, to
launch the Microsoft executable and the Farseer payload during the user login process. In earlier
Farseer variants, we saw decoy documents being used, including one case of a PDF containing a
news article relating to Myanmar. Mongolia also appears to be a target based on telemetry
provided by an industry partner of ours.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/pkplug_chinese_cyber_espionage_group_attacking_asia/ 4/9
10/4/2019 PKPLUG: Chinese Cyber Espionage Group Attacking Asia
Further information relating to these publications, together with respective Indicators of
Compromise (IoC) and Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTPs) used, are available in the
PKPLUG Adversary Playbook.