GEFILTE PHISH—BEST SERVED COLD
After learning of an active attack incident from the Rocket Kitten group on a customer network, Check Point researchers decided to
actively join the investigation. While the recent paper from Trend Micro and ClearSky (‘The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2’)
does extensively cover the campaign’s narrative, we aimed to seek confirmation that our analyzed attack was positively connected to
the same campaign and set out to provide additional value and insight.
Upon learning of the attack, we attempted to communicate with the phishing web server and gather primary reconnaissance.
We learned the same IP address was used for multiple malicious domains. Noting the server on this IP address was alive and well,
we decided to probe and question that particular server’s purpose.
What we found took us all by surprise.
We started our web probe by making scripted GET requests attempting to browse to well-known paths. A minute later, we were
excited to find a 200 OK response for a few requests, including /xampp and none other than /phpmyadmin (!).
Suspecting false positive results by our scripts, we typed in /xampp into our browser and watched with awe:
Image 8—A default configuration of XAMPP—on a live attacker server!
We curiously entered the direct path into our web browser and loaded the phpmyadmin interface.
It wasn’t until we actually submitted a query on the server, when we understood that phpmyadmin had been configured to allow
password-less root access to any browsing visitor.
“Such a gaping hole must be a decoy” we immediately thought. There is no way nation-state attackers would err in such amateur
fashion, leaving their phishing server database exposed… would they?
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  11
If only they had paid attention to the ‘XAMPP Security’ page:
Image 9 –“The MySQL admin user root has NO password—UNSECURE”
Happily browsing through the free-for-all exposed database, we quickly noted numerous schemas; most of them were completely
empty (for testing purposes?), with one specific schema standing out: ‘phakeddb’ .
Image 10—phakeddb schema – note utf8_persian_ci collation for several tables
’phakeddb’ contained a set of very interesting tables and data sets; the kind of data sets that fuel the fantasies of malware campaign
researchers. Browsing these tables, we found the phishing web application, likely to be a custom development by the Rocket Kitten
attackers. The web application would, upon operator instruction, generate the target-specific personalized phishing page for the
targeted service (Gmail, YouTube, Hotmail, etc…).
As we later learn, this platform was named ‘Oyun Management System’ by the attackers.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  12
Let us first look at the ‘users’ table:
Image 11—the ‘users’ table
The attackers log in to the application, just like any other web platform, in order to set up their phishing campaigns. This server
seems to have been deployed August 2014, when all users were created.
And the hash type of passwd fields used? You may not be surprised to learn they used unsalted MD5 hashes .
That’s actually not the most oblivious malpractice in this system, however; the hash for the user named “super admin” (assigned with
all possible permissions) is e10adc3949ba59abbe56e057f20f883e . Hobbyist cryptographers may recognize this string as the
MD5 hash for “123456”.
Looking at user names, we can spot some potentially Persian names or aliases such as merah, kaveh, ahzab or amirhosein. These
were potentially the campaign ‘operators’—tasked with social engineering and tailoring a phishing page per target. (hint: “123456”
was not the only trivially crackable password in this list)
Moving on to the intriguing “conversation” table, this appears to be an experimental messaging feature between attackers.
Unfortunately, it was rarely used.
Image 12—the ‘conversation’ table
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  13
Most messages include links to various phishing domain pages, perfectly correlating to reported attack pages, proving this database
is indeed in direct correlation to the attacks.
Interestingly enough, we can see user id 55 (correlating with the ‘attache’ username in the users table) making a request:
```
  please 20 subject for me.
tank you
attache
```
Later on, user id 60 (‘john’) pleas:
```
  seyeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeedddddddddddddd
ddddddddd
please
please
please
support me
please
I need make a new project
please add 50 subject
tank you so match
fadaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat
bos bos
;0
```
As 'boos' is Farsi for 'kiss', 'bos bos' might be considered the Persian version of 'xoxo'.
What does that mean? What projects and subjects are this system’s users referring to?
A glimpse into ‘requiretypes’ lays out a much clearer description for this system’s purpose:
Image 13—the ‘requiretypes’ table
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  14
We can see template codes for phishing pages, including the descriptive “Victim Full Name,” “Victim User Name” field values.
It seems that this application generates the custom phishing templates using these custom fields. Even more telling, we have
examples for each field, reintroducing us to our Wool3n.H4T friend (author of key-logger malware by the same group), repeatedly
mentioned in this column. This introduces the reasonable possibility that Wool3n.H4T himself wrote this “phishing application”
as a supporting tool for the campaign.
There is an intriguing ‘supervisor@ybsoft.com’ reference, too, but ybsoft.com is currently registered to a Chinese electronics shop,
so no luck in that direction.
The real jackpot, however, is still ahead.
When we opened the ‘projects’ table, we momentarily lost our breath. A ‘project’ is apparently a single victim (target e-mail address),
assigned with a ‘proj_id’, a tasked operator, and the specific link that was generated to be sent to this victim. We just hit 1842 records
including all victims attacked starting August 2014 and all the way to August 2015 (when this database was accessed).
Image 14—the ‘projects’ table
Not only do we have the e-mail addresses of all victims, we also have the template values for their respective phishing pages
(in the ‘projectmailrequirevalues’ table)!. For example a ‘Google Sign-In’ page normally displays the full name of the victim,
as well as a public avatar defined by the user. The attackers had to replicate this look and feel, and filled the database with full
names, addresses and photos for every targeted victim.
We verified and retrieved names and images of previously reported victims as expected.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  15
Image 15 – the ‘projectmailrequirevalues’ table
But what does ‘projectlogs’ contain?
Is that what we think it is?
Image 16 —log of every access to any phishing page on that server
This table contained a log entry for every access to any phishing page, including the credentials provided by the victims, if successfully
fooled. We can now use this data to gather insightful analytics on spear phishing activity over one year spanning August 2014 to August
2015. Please see the attack log analysis section in this report.
Continuing our server probe, we discovered a similarly exposed ‘Webalizer’ interface, providing useful analytics including counters
and frequently accessed links.
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  16
Image 17—Webalizer statistics for August 2015
The Webalizer interface neatly presented us with a lot of useful metadata, including “Top 40 visitor IPs”—clearly identifying attacker
access to the site, and providing us with many leads for the remainder of the investigation. Interestingly enough, we also found some
referrer headers, leading to a path on the same server:
Image 18—login screen
©2015 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved  |  17
In what can be described as a ‘hacker secret access’ portal—we seem to have reached the web interface of the phishing platform.
Testing the ‘admin’ credentials we previously “cracked”—we get:
Image 19—the “Oyun Mangement System (OMS)” [sic]
We now learn the attackers name this system “Oyun” and actually used Larry Page’s public profile picture as admin’s avatar.
The remainder of the interface simply allows access to the phakeddb database, including insertion, editing of “projects” (/targets)
and even the internal chat platform as evident in “conversations.”