1 Data Sources
1.1 ICS Honeynet Packet Capture Data
The main data set for this study is a collection of full network packet capture (PCAP) data obtained from an undisclosed organization (Undisclosed 2016). The honeynet emulated an ICS network at a U.S.-based company in the energy sector. To the extent that could be determined, we
observed that hosts on the honeynet included Windows and Windows Server machines. It was not
possible to determine the configuration of all devices on the local network, nor was this information provided with the PCAP data.
Sensors within this network environment captured all incoming and outgoing traffic in the standard libpcap format used by applications like tcpdump and Wireshark. This anonymized data
showed the 10 honeypot hosts represented by addresses in the fictitious 0.0.0.0/24 subnet. All Internet Protocol (IP) addresses external to the network remained as captured by the network sensor.
The PCAP data is available for the date range beginning June 23, 2015, through February 29,
2016. The packet capture ran nearly continuously throughout this time, delivered as individual
files for each day. In total, the files contain approximately 16 GB of data. The data set contains
traffic from at least 66,936 unique hosts communicating via Transmission Control Protocol
(TCP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP), and Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP), which
collectively account for over 99.999% of packets captured.
1.2 Data Issues
1.2.1 Incomplete Record of Activity
While very useful as a source of network interactions between the honeynet and external hosts,
the PCAP data used for this analysis occasionally lacks context that would aid a more thorough
understanding of certain activity observed within the traffic. For instance, when observing suspected malware command-and-control (C2) traffic, it was not possible to observe the initial vector
of compromise. It is possible that this traffic was observable at a time prior to that of the first
PCAP received, or that the initial compromise occurred over an encrypted connection. Analysis of
host-based artifacts could potentially explain this, but this is beyond the scope of this report. The
data set is reasonably rich and provides sufficient traffic for analysis. As a selection of data from a
larger ongoing project, it will lack context from outside the time frame under analysis.
1.2.2 Lack of Honeynet Configuration Data
Although some basic details on the honeynet have been provided and others can be inferred from
data appearing in packet payloads originating form honeypot machines (see Section 5.1), this
study treats the honeynet itself as a black box. The configuration of the hosts was not apparent. It
also was not possible to reliably determine how they listened for and/or responded to network
traffic. This in turn complicates the understanding of adversary attack chains, as the honeynet
might not be replying to adversary probes in a way that will prompt further network reconnaissance or surveillance. This is a common difficulty in honeynet operation and is not specific to this
particular example, although the effects are highly visible in this data set.
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 2
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited
A related ICS-specific issue is that it is difficult to determine which devices the network is attempting to emulate (if any). While this PCAP data originates from an explicitly ICS-based honeynet, no other specific configuration details are available. This presents a challenge in using the
Diamond Model to analyze intrusion events, as this framework uses data about the victim as an
integral part of analysis. However, information derived from the PCAP data allows us to make
certain assumptions about the victim, albeit with a lower level of confidence.
1.2.3 Need for Manual Analysis of Certain Data
Because this study seeks emerging threats to ICS, it is difficult to automate many of the steps in
data analysis. Caltagirone and colleagues remark that this can be a limitation of the Diamond
Model, as there may not be an existing method of automating analysis with the model for every
case (Caltagirone, Pendergast and Betz 2013). ICS defense is an emerging field that requires the
analysis of many proprietary or specialized protocols; few automated tools satisfy the objectives
of this study. As a result, the study included manual data analysis, particularly when examining
packet payloads. Although it is possible to engage in automated payload analysis after developing
signatures for traffic of interest, it is generally not an option until such traffic has been determined. Even with this possibility, automated analysis was of limited value due to the considerable
variety in payloads, traffic types, and hosts from which the data originated. While we may certainly draw useful conclusions from manual analysis, incorporating more automation might help
us to discover isolated data or subtle patterns that could be valuable to the study.
1.3 WHOIS and DNS Data
In identifying the hosts present in the honeynet data, we queried various WHOIS and DNS databases. These publicly available collections of information associate hostnames with IP addresses
and identify the organizations responsible for address spaces and domain names. Many of the organizations that ultimately maintain this information are regional Internet registries such as ARIN
and RIPE; we employed online tools that aggregate information from the various open databases,
including services such as RobTex and DomainTools. These services also provide cross references among various DNS databases, autonomous system numbers (ASN), and blacklist information for many hosts.
1.4 VirusTotal
VirusTotal is an open source database of file analyses incorporating the detection engines of numerous commercial anti-malware solutions. In addition to filename analysis, VirusTotal scans and
records information on various domains and hosts to track any malware that might have originated from them. This information helped us to determine whether a host that appeared in the
honeynet data had a relation to malware distribution or C2. The VirusTotal database also incorporates references to related files and hosts, plus community-submitted information and reports that
can provide additional information (VirusTotal 2016).
1.5 Palo Alto Networks’ Threat Intelligence Reports
In late 2015, Palo Alto Networks’ Unit 42 group published two short reports describing a threat
actor codenamed “Bookworm.” According to the reports, this actor used malware that primarily
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 3
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited
targeted government organizations within the nation of Thailand. Bookworm’s malware and infrastructure featured a high degree of modularity and technical sophistication. The reports, entitled
“Bookworm Trojan: A Model of Modular Architecture” and “Attack Campaign on the Government of Thailand Delivers Bookworm Trojan,” provide an in-depth analysis of the group’s tactics,
techniques, and procedures. Additionally, they include indicators of compromise such as hash values and domain names (Scott, Falcone and Cortes 2015).
1.6 Additional Open Source Information
Various publicly available documents provided context and analysis for the PCAP data. These
documents included reports by security vendors and researchers, which contained information on
malware families, threat actors, and alleged C2 domains that facilitated analysis of certain network traffic. Vendor documentation and other publicly available data obtained through Internet
research supplied basic facts about the default configurations of applications and devices (such as
the default ports used by ICS devices).
CMU/SEI-2016-TR-006 | SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 4
Distribution Statement A: Approved for Public Release; Distribution is Unlimited