5
Transfer Funds
Characteristics:

Deploy and execute malware that allows APT38 to insert

fraudulent SWIFT transactions and alter transaction
history

Transfer funds to accounts set up in other banks, usually

located in separate countries where little oversight
enables money laundering.

Typically, multiple transactions are initiated.

Operational specifics:
APT38 relies on DYEPACK, a SWIFT transaction-hijacking
framework, to initiate transactions, steal money, and hide
any evidence of the fraudulent transactions from the
victimized bank. The group uses DYEPACK to manipulate
the SWIFT transaction records and hide evidence of the
malicious transactions, so bank personnel are none the
wiser when they review recent transactions.

SQL statements identified at multiple victims deleting

fraudulent SWIFT messages provide some evidence of
how DYEPACK modifies transaction records.

If the DYEPACK processor manipulates a record of a

SWIFT message destined for a file or printer, it also
modifies the raw record in the Alliance Access Oracle
SQL database. It does this using a series of steps:
—
First, it serializes the data extracted from the print job
into an appropriate format.
—
It then invokes a legitimate Oracle command-line
SQL utility to update the database. These updates
may delete rows containing local records of SWIFT
messages or update the body text of a local record of
a SWIFT message. (Figure 6 shows an example SQL
statement used to query for SWIFT records.)
—
When an employee goes to review the local records
of the SWIFT messages, they will see the falsified
data planted by the attacker using DYEPACK.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 21
—
Because these techniques manipulate the SQL
database directly, the transaction data is changed
outside of the SWIFT framework.

APT38 modified their malware to better suit the

specifics of how SWIFT was used in at least one
victimized organization, indicating the group has access
to custom development capabilities. The targeted victim
uses Foxit PDF Reader, a legitimate program, to review
SWIFT message records as opposed to relying on
printed paper copies. To accommodate for this, APT38
updated DYEPACK to modify PDF files opened with
Foxit PDF Reader to remove traces of the fraudulent
transactions. We refer to this variant of DYEPACK as
DYEPACK.FOX.

APT38 transferred funds to banks in a separate country,

most likely to facilitate money laundering activity.
Public information reports that fictitious names and
fraudulently opened accounts are used to quickly
transfer the funds to additional accounts, often under
the guise of government account payments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), foundations, and
similar organizations.
—
According to public reporting, funds stolen from)
Bangladesh Bank were sent to four bank accounts
in the Philippines and one account associated
with an NGO in Sri Lanka via multiple transactions.
Further reporting indicates that two individuals were
associated with allegedly laundering tens of millions
of dollars in an illegal gambling operation. During
this heist, APT38 waited for a holiday weekend in
the respective countries to increase the likelihood of
hiding the transactions from banking authorities.
—
The use of an NGO for transferring money was also
mirrored in a separate operation, where APT38
attempted to transfer multiple transactions totaling
more than $100 million to a South Korean bank
account for a South Korean NGO.
```
    select * from saaowner.appe_ where appe_s_umid = '';
```
Figure 6. Example SQL statement requesting SWIFT transactions