Final stage (RAT – “PCClient”)
Finally we are left with a full payload. Unsurprisingly the 3 [rd] and final stage of this part of the attack
is a fully fledged RAT (Remote Administration Tool), which is detected by anti-virus as PCClient. This
RAT allows the attacker to control the infected workstation and perform a vast array of
administrative functions such as:


Downloading files to the infected workstation


Uploading from the infected workstation files to the attackers


Enumerate/list all connected drives such as network shares or external devices


Search the infected workstations hard drive for files


Deleting, copying and moving files on the infected workstation


Executing commands on the infected workstation


A high-level view of the command structure gives us an idea as to how simple this functionality
can seem, but does not turn away from how damaging the affects can be:
D r a g o n T h r e a t L a b s, H o n g K o n g Page 7
Once the RAT has been loaded on the infected machine it begins calling out to the command and
control server (“phoning home”) and waits for the attackers to issue one of the above
commands to the victim. As we usually see with APT attacks the malware controllers use a
specific ID to code their attack campaign, which in this case is ‘C00BBB’.
Information about the victim system is collected and posted off to the command and control
server. This information gives the attacker a brief description about the machine. The
information consists of:
- Machine hostname

- Total amount of RAM memory

- Operating system and service pack level

- Attack campaign code

This information is encoded using a simple bitwise operation and then sent to the command and
control server. For example:
Unencoded data Encoded data
D r a g o n T h r e a t L a b s, H o n g K o n g Page 8
Whilst this may seem to make the data harder to recover it actually makes detection of the traffic
easier. To decode the traffic a simple calculation can be performed by reversing the encoding
operations. In this case the malware simply increases the initial encoding key by 1, then adds this
value to each byte in the buffer and finally XOR’s each byte. Once again, the following pseudo-code
can decode this data