Summary
The electric utility industry is a valuable target for adversaries seeking to exploit industrial control systems
(ICS) and operations technology (OT) for a variety of purposes. A power disruption event from a cyberattack
can occur from multiple components of an electric system including disruptions of the operational systems
used for situational awareness and energy trading, targeting enterprise environments to achieve an enabling
attack through interconnected and interdependent IT systems, or through a direct compromise of cyber digital
assets used within OT environments. Attacks on electric systems – like attacks on other critical infrastructure
sectors – can further an adversary’s criminal, political, economic, or geopolitical goals. As adversaries and their
sponsors invest more effort and money into obtaining effects-focused capabilities, the risk of a disruptive or
destructive attack on the electric sector significantly increases.
The number of publicly known attacks impacting ICS environments around the world continues to increase,
and correspondingly the potential risk due to a disruptive cyber event impacting the North American electric
sector is currently assessed as high. This report highlights multiple threats and adversaries focusing on critical
infrastructure and their capabilities. Dragos anticipates the threat landscape associated with the sector will
remain high as the detected intrusions continue to rise.
Of the activity groups that Dragos is actively tracking, nearly two-thirds of the groups performing ICS specific
targeting and disruption activities are focused on the North American electric sector. Additionally, existing
threats to ICS are expanding and establishing new interest in electric utility operations in North America. For
example, the Dragos tracked activity group XENOTIME – the most dangerous and capable activity group –
initially focused its targeting efforts on oil and gas operations before expanding to include North American
electric utilities. Dragos also identified the MAGNALLIUM activity group expanding targeting to include electric
utilities in the US. This activity group expansion and shift to the electric sector coincided with increasing
political and military tensions in Gulf Coast Countries (GCC).
Dragos research of the CRASHOVERRIDE attack indicates ELECTRUM targeted recovery operations. Such
activity, if successful, could prolong outages following a cyberattack and cause physical damage to equipment
or harm to operators. These findings suggest the group had greater ambitions than what it achieved during its
2016 attack, and represent worrying possibilities for safety and protection-focused attacks in the future.
Historically, adversaries have demonstrated the capabilities to significantly disrupt electric operations in largescale cyber events through specialized malware and deep knowledge of targets’ operations environments.
Although North America has not experienced similar attacks, ICS-targeting adversaries exhibit the interest and
ability to target such networks with activities that could facilitate such attacks.
The electric sector, as a whole, has been working for over a decade to address cyber threats through board
level decisions, [1] preparedness exercises like GridEx, the NERC CIP standards, and direct investment in ICSspecific security technologies. However, adversaries will continue to evolve and the industry must be ready to
adapt.
This report provides a snapshot of the threat landscape as of January 2020 and is expected to change in the
future as adversaries and their behaviors evolve.