11
i
Subordinate
CA Root CA/Issuer Owner Status Valid From Valid To
GTE CyberTrust trainingforms.syniverse. Invalid Sig 2/17/2009 2/17/2011
Cybertrust SureServer CA com
sha1/RSA (512 bits)
All related cases of signed Darkhotel malware share the same Root Certificate
Authority and Intermediate Certificate Authority that issued certificates with
weak md5 keys (RSA 512 bits). We are confident that our Darkhotel threat actor
fraudulently duplicated these certificates to sign its malware. These keys were
not stolen. Many of the certificates were noted in a 2011 Fox­IT post “RSA­512
Certifcates Abused in the Wildi ”.
To further support this speculation please note the non­specific Microsoft Security
Advisory below, the Mozilla advisory addressing the issue at the time, and the
Entrust responses.
From Microsoft’s security advisory from Thursday, November 10, 2011:
“Microsoft is aware that DigiCert Sdn. Bhd, a Malaysian subordinate certification authority (CA) under Entrust and GTE CyberTrust, has issued 22 certificates with weak 512 bit keys. These weak encryption keys, when broken, could
allow an attacker to use the certificates fraudulently to spoof content, perform
phishing attacks, or perform man­in­the­middle attacks against all Web browser
users including users of Internet Explorer. While this is not a vulnerability in a
Microsoft product, this issue affects all supported releases of Microsoft Windows.
There is no indication that any certificates were issued fraudulently. Instead,
cryptographically weak keys have allowed some of the certificates to be duplicated and used in a fraudulent manner.
Microsoft is providing an update for all supported releases of Microsoft Windows
that revokes the trust in DigiCert Sdn. Bhd. The update revokes the trust of the
following two intermediate CA certificates: Digisign Server ID – (Enrich), issued by
Entrust.net Certification Authority (2048) Digisign Server ID (Enrich), issued by
GTE CyberTrust Global Root”
From Mozilla’s 2011 response:
“While there is no indication they were issued fraudulently, the weak keys have
allowed the certificates to be compromised. Furthermore, certificates from this
CA contain several technical issues. They lack an EKU extension specifying their
intended usage and they have been issued without revocation information.”
TLP: Green For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
i