Conclusions
Despite initial expectations for it to stay low or even disappear, Olympic Destroyer has
resurfaced with new attacks in Europe, Russia and Ukraine. In late 2017, a similar
reconnaissance stage preceded a larger cyber-sabotage stage meant to destroy and paralyze
infrastructure of the Winter Olympic Games as well as related supply chains, partners and
12/14
even venues at the event location. It’s possible that in this case we have observed a
reconnaissance stage that will be followed by a wave of destructive attacks with new motives.
That is why it is important for all bio-chemical threat prevention and research companies and
organizations in Europe to strengthen their security and run unscheduled security audits.
The variety of financial and non-financial targets could indicate that the same malware was
used by several groups with different interests – i.e. a group primarily interested in financial
gain through cybertheft and another group or groups looking for espionage targets. This could
also be a result of cyberattack outsourcing, which is not uncommon among nation state actors.
On the other hand, the financial targets might be another false flag operation by an actor who
has already excelled at this during the Pyeongchang Olympics to redirect researchers’
attention.
Certain conclusions could be made based on motives and the selection of targets in this
campaign. However, it is easy to make a mistake when trying to answer the question of who is
behind this campaign with only the fragments of the picture that are visible to researchers. The
appearance, at the start of this year, of Olympic Destroyer with its sophisticated deception
efforts, changed the attribution game forever. We believe that it is no longer possible to draw
conclusions based on few attribution vectors discovered during regular investigation. The
resistance to and deterrence of threats such as Olympic Destroyer should be based on
cooperation between the private sector and governments across national borders.
Unfortunately, the current geopolitical situation in the world only boosts the global
segmentation of the internet and introduces many obstacles for researchers and investigators.
This will encourage APT attackers to continue marching into the protected networks of foreign
governments and commercial companies.
The best thing we can do as researchers is to keep tracking threats like this. We will keep
monitoring Olympic Destroyer and report on new discovered activities of this group.
More details about Olympic Destroyer and related activity are available to subscribers of
Kaspersky Intelligence Reporting services. Contact: intelreports@kaspersky.com