Maintaining Teamwork and Infrastructure
Our investigation of the team’s infrastructure centers around two domains used for command-and-control: “ politnews.org”
and “ bannetwork.org”. But clearly, the strategy guiding this team is to pull off multiple “watering hole” attacks, and
sometimes pollute ad networks, inefficiently blanketing the region they are most interested in with malvertizing and
redirections to their malicious sites. These two servers have been heavily used over years of attack campaigns, with more
recent servers receiving tens if not hundreds of hits in the past week.
“politnews.org” was originally registered on the June 18th, 2004 by one “Zacepenko Ilia Igorevich” at OnlineNIC Inc:
Zacepenko Ilia Igorevich
9th square, 10-1,1
NI Larne, GB 127591
politnews@mail.ru
PAGE 6 | The ‘TeamSpy’ Story - Abusing TeamViewer in Cyberespionage Campaigns | 20 March 2013
“bannetwork.org” was originally registered on September 2nd, 2004 by one “Dmitryi Ivastov” at OnlineNIC Inc as well:
Dmitryi Ivastov
Mira street, 1a
Moscow, RU 103555
bannetwork@mail.ru
We believe that these are fictional identities and used only to register these individual domains.
The two servers resided at several hosts over the past decade, but from 2010, both domains were maintained at Russian
provider Host Telecom. (known malicious IP for “bannetwork.org”: “89.188.104.7”).
For the most part, these systems maintain identical toolsets, structure, software and accounts. Both of these systems hosted
an FTP server and an Apache HTTP web server, along with the same user accounts for running each. The HTTP servers were
used to serve “job.txt”, which maintained a set of system commands for agents checking in, among other files described
below. Interestingly, other files included “html” pages and exploits related to the well-known exploit kit “Eleonore Exploit
Pack”, created and maintained by Exmanoize.
Also, one of the server scripts to collect infection success statistics mentions the Eleonore exploit kit by name:
And one of the more recent, current sites, “checkmeil.com”, is serving both malicious java and pdf files. Of course, just like
Eleonore started serving couple of years ago, it defaults to deliver a malicious JAR file first, prior to other exploits potentially
sent to the victim system.
PAGE 7 | The ‘TeamSpy’ Story - Abusing TeamViewer in Cyberespionage Campaigns | 20 March 2013
The 2012 version of “door.jar” (CVE-2012-0507) exploit is blocked proactively by our AEP functionality at runtime and detected
by Kaspersky products as “HEUR:Exploit.Java.CVE-2012-0507.gen".
A malicious PDF is served if the Java Runtime is not present on the system. Our products detect this particular malicious file as
Exploit.JS.Pdfka.gbf.
Most of the TeamSpy servers are using a free, Russian open source tool named “ReaderRssPhp 1.0”. This is a set of PHP scripts
designed to “read and display RSS feeds on your site”. Most likely, the attackers planned their attacks well in advance and built
a set of web sites using these scripts to provide news aggregation channels serving content at least somewhat relevant to their
target victims’ favorite web sites.
Over the past years, the attackers added exploit packs like Eleonore on their news aggregation sites. Then, the attackers
injected iframes into carefully selected web sites frequently visited by their target victims. The iframes redirect these target
visitors (and some extras) to their previously-prepared malicious sites. For instance, redirections from “konflikt.ru” to the
attackers’ “bannetwork.org” started in October 2005. In February 2006, users were redirected from “daymohk.org” to
“bannetwork.org”, followed by “www.turkmenistan.gov.tm” and “chechentimes.net” in March. The list of infected watering
hole sites continued to grow from there.
PAGE 8 | The ‘TeamSpy’ Story - Abusing TeamViewer in Cyberespionage Campaigns | 20 March 2013
Attacks from the “bannetwork.org” site appear to have been related to the following links by at least February 2010:
bannetwork(dot)org/5058/spl/
bannetwork(dot)org/5058/spl/inc/function.php
bannetwork(dot)org/5058/spl/ms-041.jpg
bannetwork(dot)org/5058/spl/vx_2c.exe
bannetwork(dot)org/5058/spl/new-ms-041.jpg
Based on the server access stats, we were able to put together a thorough list of web sites which appear to have acted as
referrers to the exploit packs. Since the early infections, it appears that they have been compromised and redirecting visitors
on and off until recently:
daymohk.org
chechenpress.info
daymohk.chechenpress.org
chechentimes.net
caucasuslive.org
kauna-talu.com.ua
timorseada.org
mediaf.org
ichkeria.info
kavkazanhaamash.com
rusedina.org
konflikt.ru
forum.ladoshki.com
shaheeds.org
hghltd.yandex.com
turkmenistan.gov.tm