Case expansion through related files
The behaviour pattern and the file structure of known files made it possible to search internal and public
databases for similar cases. The large amount of new malware being created makes it infeasible to
conduct malware-related investigations of any scale without strong database support. In our case, we
preserve the behavioural information of all files processed by our internal bank of Norman MAG2
automatic analysis systems.
Searching internal databases for behavioural similarities: In this case, the particular VB script execution, but there’s a wealth of
attributes we can cluster by.
There are also several public and commercial databases available for additional data mining, and Google
is invaluable. The amount of malware we found through this was surprisingly large, and it became clear
that the Telenor intrusion was not a single attack but part of a continuous effort to attack and
compromise governments and corporations around the world.
Operation Hangover: Unveiling an Indian Cyberattack Infrastructure 8
While investigating the extra cases we identified, we accidentally discovered that a number of their C&C
servers contained world readable folders. We were able to navigate into these and secure the data
stored there.
The data contained in these folders were mainly connection logs, keylogs and other uploaded data from
computers affected with malware. Many of the collected logs were from automated analysis systems
belonging to security companies, but not all.
An important find we did on these servers were additional malicious executables, probably meant to be
served to infected users. Some of these executables were digitally signed with a certificate which was
revoked in 2011:
Technical and Commercial Consulting Pvt. Ltd.
VeriSign Class 3 Code Signing 2010 CA
Serial number: 4bf1d68e926e2dd8966008c44f95ea1c
Revoked Nov 24 [th] 2011
Operation Hangover: Unveiling an Indian Cyberattack Infrastructure 9
Searching our certificate databases we found a large number of other executables similarly signed, none
of which were found to be innocent applications.
Certificate database hits
Operation Hangover: Unveiling an Indian Cyberattack Infrastructure 10