Executive Summar y
At the beginning of May 2021, we detected the first attack by Siamesekitten on an IT company in Israel.
Siamesekitten (also named Lyceum/Hexane) is an Iranian APT group active in the Middle east and in
Africa that is active in launching supply chain attacks. To this end Siamesekitten established a large
infrastructure that enabled them to impersonate the company and their HR personnel. We believe that
this infrastructure was built to lure IT experts and penetrate their computers to gain accesses to the
company’s clients.
In July 2021, we detected a second wave of similar attacks against additional companies in Israel. In
this wave, Siamesekitten upgraded their backdoor malware to a new version called “Shark” and it
replaced the old version of their malware called “Milan”. Details of both versions are included in our
report.
This report summarizes our findings regarding the latest Siamesekitten attacks and reviews the attack
patterns and malware used in this campaign.
We believe that during the past several months Siamesekitten APT has been trying to penetrate into
many Israeli organizations, using supply chain tools.
The attack sequence of Siamesekitten’s attacks that was uncovered by our researchers includes the
following phases:


Identifying the potential victim (employee).


Identifying the human resources department employee who may be impersonated.


Establishing a phishing website that impersonates the targeted organization.


Creating lure files compatible with the impersonated organization.


Setting up a fraudulent profile on LinkedIn, impersonating the mentioned HR department


employee.

Contacting potential victims with an "alluring" job offer, detailing a position in the

impersonated organization


Sending the victim to a phishing website with a lure file.


The Milan backdoor malware infects the computer or server after one or more lure files are


downloaded. As a result, a connection is established between the infected machine and the
C&C server using DNS and HTTPS.

The DanBot RAT is downloaded to the infected system.


© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2021
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:WHITE
3 | P a g e

Through the infected machine, the group gathers data, conducts espionage, and attempts to

spread within the network.
The Iranian attack group Siamesekitten (also named Lyceum/Hexane) has been active since 2018 [1] . In
the past, the group has mainly targeted oil, gas, and telecom companies. In 2018, the group primarily
attacked several African countries, and in 2019, they began attacking Middle Eastern [2] countries as
well. In the first quarter of 2021 the group focused on attacks in Tunisia [3] .
According to research conducted by Dragos researchers, the group establishes a foothold on the
machines they infect to facilitate continued activities on the network. Additionally, Dragos stated that
the group primarily employs lure documents as an initial attack vector. Several security companies
were able to detect a partial resemblance between Siamesekitten’s activities and activities conducted
by two other Iranian groups – APT33 and APT34. After establishing persistence on the infected machine,
the group uses DanBot, a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) that enables downloading and uploading files
from and to the C&C server.
This campaign is similar to the North Korean "job seekers" campaign, employing what has become a
widely used attack vector in recent years - impersonation. Many attack groups are executing this type
of campaign, such as the North Korean Lazarus campaign we exposed in the summer of 2020 (Dream
Job) and the Iranian OilRig campaign (APT34) that targeted Middle Eastern victims in the first quarter
of 2021.
The group offers the potential victim an “alluring” job offer in a known company that they are
impersonating. The victim will be referred to a website hosted on the impersonating server, where they
will find details concerning jobs in Israel, France, and the UK. The website also presents two lure files –
an Excel file that unloads the backdoor using a malicious Macro, and an executable that unloads the
same backdoor onto the machine. After unloading the backdoor, a connection is established between
the infected machine and the C&C server, which will eventually lead to the download of a RAT to the
victim's computer. This dual infection is another development of the group's attack methods.
We believe that these attacks and their focus on IT and communication companies are intended to
facilitate supply chain attacks on their clients. According to our assessment, the group's main goal is
to conduct espionage and utilize the infected network to gain access to their clients’ networks. As
with other groups, it is possible that espionage and intelligence gathering are the first steps toward
executing impersonation attacks targeting ransomware or wiper malware.
1 dragos.com/threat/hexane/
2 secureworks.com/blog/lyceum-takes-center-stage-in-middle-east-campaign
3 securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2021/101967 /

© All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2021
info@clearskysec.com www.clearskysec.com
TLP:WHITE
4 | P a g e