Conclusions and Outlook
The attempted spearphish has revealed a suite of TTPs that are
linked to the recent activities of several different threat actors:
APT28, Dragonfly, and TEMP.Periscope. We have listed the key TTPs
observed in this attack in a chronological format in order to draw
attention to the likelihood of techniques being copied from publicly
disclosed reporting of these TTPs. These are summarized in the
table below:
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-1113 | 11
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
|Observed TTP|TTP Category|Similarity WithHistoric APT TTPs|Date TTP Publicized|
|---|---|---|---|
|Use of Chinese emailclient Foxmail|Infrastructure|Previously reported as being aclient used by Chinese APT groupLuckycat.|2012|
|Use of open sourcetool Responder (albeita modified instancein this case, based onthe presence of thehardcoded hostname,WIN-PRH492RQAFV|Malware/Tooling|APT28 deployed Responder ona hospitality sector networkthey compromised usingETERNALBLUE. Responderwas used to facilitate NetBiospoisoning to steal victimcredentials.|August 11, 2017|
|Use of path “file://”in the maliciouslink provided in thespearphish to harvestSMB credentials|Malware/Tooling|U.S. NCCIC reported Russiangroup, Dragonfly, employedwatering holes where Javascriptcode used a hidden iFrame togenerate a “file://” connection to aremote server, resulting in an SMBtransfer of the victims’ NT LocalArea Network Manager (NTLM)hash.|March 15, 2018|
|Spearphish sent to U.K.engineering companyemail accounts|Victim|The targeting of maritimeengineering companies hasrecently been reported as havingbeen conducted by Chinese APTTEMP.Periscope.|TEMP.Periscopetargeting of maritimeengineering companyon March 16, 2018|
|WIN-AB2I27TG6FKhostname of devicesending spearphish|Infrastructure|Appears in the filename of threeseparate files listed in the opendirectory, scsnewstoday[.]com,and used recently by Chinese APTTEMP.Periscope.|July 10, 2018|
|Spearphish sent toan email possiblybelonging to aCambodian journalist|Victim|Targeting of Cambodian entitieshas been reported as a known TTPof TEMP.Periscope.|July 10, 2018|
Summary of observed TTPs used in attacks and links to similar APT TTPs.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-1113 | 12
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Given that most of the listed APT28, Dragonfly, and TEMP.Periscope
TTPs have already been published, we believe there are three likely
scenarios for the activity observed:

A Russian threat actor was responsible and borrowed

TEMP.Periscope TTPs.

TEMP.Periscope was responsible and borrowed Russian

threat actor TTPs.

Another threat actor was responsible that used TTPs from the

Russian groups and TEMP.Periscope.
In order to assess which of the three hypotheses above best explains
our observations, we assessed the accumulated evidence detailed
in this report.
First, we are certain that the attacker used IP 193.180.255[.]2 as
a VPN endpoint to send the spearphish because the IP address
resolves to Swedish VPN service PrivateVPN. We are also certain that
the device that sent the spearphish was associated with the WIN
AB2I27TG6FK hostname. Further, we can state that this hostname
was used in the filename of several files hosted on a known
TEMP.Periscope C2, which had an open directory. As outlined
earlier in this report, we believe the sender of the spearphish, WINAB2I27TG6FK, is probably the hostname of the TEMP.Periscope
open directory hosted at scsnewstoday[.]com.
The spearphish was sent on July 6, 2018. Just a few days later,
FireEye reported on a TEMP.Periscope campaign targeting the
Cambodian elections in July 2018 that used the open directory
hosted on scsnewstoday[.]com as a C2. The report noted that the
same infrastructure was likely active since at least April 2017.
Secondly, the “file://” path included in the spearphish linking to the
C2 82.118.242[.]243 was designed to steal credentials over SMB.
This technique was documented publicly as a Dragonfly threat actor
TTP by the US-CERT in March 2018, almost four months before the
observed attack.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-1113 | 13
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
The observed hostname on the 82.118.242[.]243 IP was WIN
PRH492RQAFV, which we found was hard coded in a forked
Responder script on GitHub. The original Responder script has
previously been used by another Russian threat actor, APT28,
according to reporting published in August 2017.
Timeline of selected APT28, Dragonfly, and TEMP.Periscope TTP disclosures and activity.
TEMP.Periscope has been actively followed by the research
community since at least October 2017 — two months after APT28’s
use of Responder was disclosed by FireEye in August 2017. [2] There
has since been a flurry of reporting on TEMP.Periscope activity in
2018, with campaigns against American and European maritime
engineering companies and the Cambodian government. We
should note here that the spearphish we observed was also sent
to an email account that contained the name of a journalist based
in Cambodia and was sent from an account spoofing an Australian
journalist that had previously reported on Cambodian topics.
2 F-Secure published research in August 2016 on their investigations into the NanHaiShu
RAT, which has since been attributed to TEMP.Periscope (Leviathan).
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-1113 | 14
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Therefore, it is plausible that, with the timeline of Russian tooling
being made public prior to the disclosure of the TEMP.Periscope
campaigns, TEMP.Periscope adapted their TTPs to either hinder
attribution efforts or to simply use techniques that they deemed
would be effective.
The overlap in infrastructure with the scsnewstoday[.]com C2
domain is also key; the domain was publicly reported by FireEye as
being used by TEMP.Periscope only a few days after the spearphish
to the U.K. engineering company was sent, making it highly
unlikely that another threat actor could have compromised the
C2. Additionally, the longer-term targeting of the U.K. engineering
company by TEMP.Periscope since at least May 2017 highlights the
group’s persistence in attempting to gain access.
Based on the available data and evidence outlined in this report,
Recorded Future assesses with medium confidence that Chinese
threat actor TEMP.Periscope reused TTPs from other threat groups
to target the U.K. engineering company, likely to gain access to their
sensitive and proprietary technologies and data. TEMP.Periscope
has demonstrated an ability to rapidly adapt its TTPs to learn from
other groups, such as APT28 and Dragonfly, either to increase their
chances of success in gaining access to the victim network or to
obfuscate attribution attempts.
Recorded Future expects TEMP.Periscope to continue to target
organizations in the high-tech defense and engineering sectors. The
Chinese strategic requirement to develop advanced technology,
particularly in marine engineering, remains an intense focus as
China looks to dominate the South China Sea territory. We believe
TEMP.Periscope will continue to use commodity malware because
it is still broadly successful and relatively low cost for them to use.
They will continue to observe “trending” vulnerabilities to exploit
and use techniques that have been publicly reported in order to
gain access to victim networks.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-1113 | 15
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Finally, Recorded Future believes that threat actors are actively
emulating each other, monitoring publications and data sources
both to protect their infrastructure and to observe techniques that
rival actors are using. We anticipate that adversaries will continue
to plant false flags, either via technical means (as observed in the
Olympic Destroyer campaign) or with technique emulation. As means
of detection have drastically improved, the public identification of
code overlap and the mapping of TTPs plays into the hands of wellcoordinated operations, which can now make attribution findings
murky at best. The samples and techniques named in a report can
now rapidly be transposed into new or ongoing campaigns due to
the volume of public reporting on these issues. This muddying of
the waters allows targeted campaigns to better blend in with the
noise, attempting to blur the lines between adversary groups.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2018-1113 | 16
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS