INTRODUCTION
Cyberspace has become the newest frontier in the four-decade-long U.S.-Iran cold war.
Perhaps more than any government in the world, the Islamic Republic of Iran has been
the target of uniquely destructive cyber attacks by the United States and its allies. At the
same time, groups associated with Iran’s security forces—namely the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and Ministry of Intelligence—have become increasingly
adept at conducting their own offensive cyber operations. The targets of such operations
include Iranian government critics at home and abroad, corporations, and nongovernmental organizations, as well as the economic, defense, and diplomatic institutions of
countries including Germany, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and the United States.
The Iranian government has provided conflicting public accounts of its offensive cyber
operations, touting its capabilities while denying responsibility for attacks attributed to
it. Consistent with its use of proxy groups to assert its regional power, Tehran frequently
masks its involvement in such operations using cutouts (intermediaries) to avoid attribution and provide it plausible deniability. Despite these denials, it is clear Iran has invested
in indigenous cyber capabilities for both defensive and offensive purposes, and is willing
to use them in the event of conflict.
Tehran’s offensive cyber capabilities are relatively unsophisticated compared to states like
China, Russia, and the United States. While the Iranian hacking scene emerged in the early
2000s, there is little evidence of state-aligned cyber activities before 2007. This comparatively late start and underinvestment in part accounts for its lower capacity. Yet Moscow’s
compromise of Democratic Party institutions and political operatives during the 2016 U.S.
5
election demonstrated that information warfare can be conducted through basic tactics.
Iran has similarly preyed upon the lack of sophistication or preparedness of vulnerable targets both inside and outside Iran, including Saudi oil companies, Middle Eastern governments, and U.S. banks. Though these operations have often caused great financial damage,
the methods used to destroy data or disrupt access were relatively simple.
Iran has demonstrated how militarily weaker countries can use offensive cyber operations
to contend with more advanced adversaries. Tehran’s operations against foreign interests
have been mostly espionage and sabotage campaigns against soft targets in rival countries, rather than economic theft. Disruptive and destructive attacks have repeatedly been
used by Tehran to signal its ability to impose
retaliatory costs on its adversaries. Overall,