Analysis – BalkanDoor
BalkanDoor is a simple backdoor with a small number of commands (download and execute a
file, create a remote shell, take a screenshot). It can be used to automate tasks on the
compromised computer or to automatically control several affected computers at once. We have
seen six versions of the backdoor, ranging in supported commands, evolving since 2016.
The initial dropper unpacks all components, opens a decoy PDF (in some cases) and executes a
batch installation script that ensures persistence of the backdoor.
The backdoor registers itself as a service, under a legitimately-looking service name (e.g.
WindowsSvc, WindowsPrnt, WindowsConn or WindowsErr); the accompanying batch scripts can
further ensure persistence by using Registry Run Keys or Startup folder.
After the backdoor is installed, the computer connects to a C&C server, identifying itself by the
computer name and requesting the commands. The backdoor can connect to any of the C&Cs
from a hardcoded list – a measure to increase resilience. It connects via the HTTP or HTTPS
protocol; if HTTPS is used, then the server certificates are ignored.
If the connection is not successful, the backdoor is capable of using the user-configured proxy on
the victim’s computer and repeating the connection attempt.
The backdoor commands come in a format of an INI file, with properties determining the
commands, command arguments and intended recipients. Specifying the list of recipients allows
the attacker to send their commands to several compromised computers at once, e.g. to
automatically take screenshots of all compromised computers.
Commands Functionality
cn Specifies computer name(s) of the intended recipients of the commands
du, int Download and execute a file
du, ra, de, rpo Download and execute a file, in the specified context and on a specified desktop
rip Create a remote shell accessible from the specified IP address
scr_int, scr_dur Capture a series of screenshots of the specified duration
Furthermore, the backdoor itself can be executed in several modes, determined by the command
line arguments with which it is executed. These modes themselves can serve as backdoor
commands (when executed from the remote shell):
Argument Functionality
/unlock Unlocks the screen
/rcmd Creates a remote shell and redirects its input/output to the specified IP address
/takescr Captures a series of screenshots, duration determined by other arguments
/run Executes the specified command using cmd.exe
/runx Executes the specified command using cmd.exe, on the active (input) desktop
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/14/balkans-businesses-double-barreled-weapon/ 5/18
/inst Installs itself as a service and starts the main procedure (see /nosvc)
8/15/2019 In the Balkans, businesses are under fire from a double ~~-~~ barreled weapon | WeLiveSecurity
/start Starts the associated service, which starts the main procedure (see /nosvc)
/nosvc Main payload, communicates with C&C and interprets backdoor commands
Among the BalkanDoor capabilities, the most notable is passwordless screen-unlocking.
This feature comes in handy to the attackers in cases when a logged-in user locks the computer.
The “Lock screen” is just another Desktop for the system, so any malware with the necessary
privileges can switch to a real desktop by command. No password is required to perform this
operation.
Figure 3. Code responsible for unlocking the computer when the backdoor is executed remotely with an “/unlock” argument