Operational Security++
BlackBerry previously noted that BAHAMUT does an exceptional job of segregating their phishing,
credential harvesting, Android, iOS, and Windows infrastructure from one another.
In a departure from BAHAMUT tactics described in prior research by others, BlackBerry today
observes that there is no domain or IP address cross-over between operational functions in the
group’s current tradecraft. We find, for example, that no domains or IP addresses used to control
or distribute Windows malware are used for phishing or to administer malware designed for any
other operating system. Similarly, it is rare that any single server is used for more than a single
mobile application at any given time. BAHAMUT ensures that no hosting provider is leveraged
too heavily and spreads its current active infrastructure across more than 50 different hosting
providers, thereby ensuring operational continuity if any single campaign is identified or a set of
malware samples is disclosed. This is likely enormously time consuming, expensive, and requires
considerable attention to detail.
As researchers, we must weigh the cost-benefit of releasing information given the impact it will
have on both defenders and attackers. Given the benefit of better historical visibility, BlackBerry can
assert that prior research on BAHAMUT had little to no effect on the overall operational capabilities
of the group. The group either quickly built new infrastructure or shifted their operations to other
existing servers. This suggests that the group is either extremely well-funded or had stockpiled
enough resources to weather any potential storm.
BAHAMUT is meticulous with their domain registrations, ensuring different privacy services are used,
domains are purchased from a variety of different registrars and resellers, and the group limits the
number of domains that could be associated with any single email address. Some of the first public
research on the group was released by Kaspersky (Legezo, 2016), which did not attribute the activity
they discovered to any threat actor. In retrospect, it appears that a common email address, “david.
ryall[at]mail.ru”, was present within a large number of the domains’ Start of Authority (aka SOA, or
responsible party) records. This email could have been used to link several disparate Windows-based
C2 domains to one another. BlackBerry only recently noticed this. However, BAHAMUT spotted it
immediately following that publication, and going forward the group safeguarded against linking
more than a few domains to any single email address. Similarly, after Bellingcat noted the group's
preference for “mail.ru” email addresses, BAHAMUT immediately shifted to the free provider “pobox.
sk”, which Bellingcat subsequently noted in their follow-up post. At present, the group prefers to
use the providers “mail-king.com”, “posta.ro”, and “all.bg”.
In sum, BlackBerry finds BAHAMUT to be well above average in its social engineering. The group
has truly impressive operational security that enables them to continue to attack despite numerous,
repeated attempts to expose their operations.
50