8 Concluding Comments
Prior to Wicked Rose and NCPH hacker for hire attacks in 2006, Chinese hackers are only
known for their patriotic hacking. This disturbing development reveals two critical threats: 1)
motives of Chinese hackers are changing 2) Chinese hackers are regularly associated with
sophisticated attacks as of 2006.
Wicked Rose implicates himself in his early blog entries and website posts in 2006 and prior.
An unknown company or entity reportedly paid Wicked Rose for hacking at the rate of 2,000
RMB a month, about $250 USD. At this time Wicked Rose gave 200 RMB to NCPH hackers
and kept the rest for himself. Once targeted attacks took place the payment increased five-fold to
5,000 RMB monthly with $1,000 a month going to NCPH hackers. This is a significant amount
of money in China, effectively paying hackers a full-time wage for part-time hacking.
Throughout the summer of 2006, while Wicked Rose was not in school, over 35 zero-day
attacks, proof-of-concept codes, and attacks against un-patched Microsoft Office vulnerabilities
are discovered in the wild. With Wicked Rose claiming responsibility for early attacks and the
lead author of both GinWui and the NCPH hacking group, there is little doubt left as to his
involvement in attacks to date.
By the end of 2006 attacks become increasingly sophisticated. In one instance a popular
PowerPoint file distributed during the Christmas holiday season for the last two years prior is
used within a socially engineered attack upon one individual within an energy sector US based
company. The PowerPoint file is modified to include an exploit that silently installs malicious
code. This same individual receives another e-mail containing a Microsoft Word exploit. In this
case only one individual within the company is targeted, and with just two messages socially
engineered for maximum success. This is a much more targeted and stealthy approach for
attacks compared to the earlier attacks performed by the group in the late spring of 2006.
NCPH continues to be a significant threat going forth for several reasons.

Attacks continue to take place in the wild and are very difficult to identify on a targeted

basis. Only the most sophisticated networks and system administrators are able to
properly protect and capture hostile targeted attack files before an attack takes place.
2. NCPH is a serious dedicated hacking group that is methodical and disciplined in their
development of new exploits and attacks.
3. NCPH is motivated by both the thrill and challenge of hacking and money as a motive.
4. Attacks by the group are highly targeted and stealthy, very difficult to detect and remove.