Re-evaluation of North Korean State-Sponsored Activities
In 2018, we began an intensive review of North Korean
state-sponsored cyber operations based on activity that
we had previously attributed to TEMP.Hermit, related data
derived from Mandiant forensic investigations, FireEye
appliances, FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence collections, and
public reporting associated with the "Lazarus" (aka
Hidden Cobra) group. Investigating intrusions of many
victimized organizations has provided us with a unique
perspective into the entire attack lifecycle. As a result of
this review, we are separating a cluster of activity distinct
enough to be tracked separately from TEMP.Hermit. We
now refer to this financially motivated group as APT38.

APT38 is a financially motivated group linked to North

Korean cyber espionage operators, renown for attempting
to steal hundreds of millions of dollars from financial
institutions and their brazen use of destructive malware.

APT38 executes sophisticated bank heists typically

featuring long planning, extended periods of access
to compromised victim environments preceding any
attempts to steal money, fluency across mixed operating
system environments, the use of custom developed tools,
and a constant effort to thwart investigations capped
with a willingness to completely destroy compromised
machines afterwards.

A 2016 Novetta report detailed the work of security

vendors attempting to unveil tools and infrastructure
related to the 2014 destructive attack against Sony
Pictures Entertainment. This report detailed malware
and tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) that the
researchers believed were linked to a set of developers and
operators they dubbed "Lazarus," a name that has become
largely synonymous with aggressive North Korean cyber
operations. We tracked many of these indicators and
campaigns as TEMP.Hermit.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 5

Attribution to both the "Lazarus" group and TEMP.Hermit

was made with varying levels of confidence primarily
based on similarities in malware being leveraged in
identified operations. Over time these malware similarities
diverged, as did targeting, intended outcomes, and TTPs,
almost certainly indicating that TEMP.Hermit activity is
made up of multiple operational groups primarily linked
together with shared malware development resources and
North Korean state sponsorship.

Because APT38 is backed by (and acts on behalf of) the

North Korean regime, we opted to categorize the group as
an "APT" instead of a "FIN." This also reflects that APT38's
operations closely resemble espionage-related activity.

We will continue to refer to TEMP.Hermit and related North

Korea-sponsored activity as appropriate, minus the distinct
operations we are now attributing to APT38.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 6