Executive Summary
This report describes an elaborately staged malware operation with targets in the Syrian opposition. The operators have
used use a range of techniques to target Windows computers and Android phones with the apparent goal of
penetrating the computers of well-connected individuals in the Syrian opposition.
We first discovered the operation in late 2015 when a member of the Syrian opposition spotted a suspicious e-mail
containing a PowerPoint slideshow. From this initial message, we uncovered a watering hole website with malicious
programs, malicious PowerPoint files, and Android malware, all apparently designed to appeal to members of the
opposition.
Elements of the Syrian opposition have been targeted by malware campaigns since the early days of the conflict:
regime-linked malware groups, the Syrian Electronic Army, ISIS, and a group linked to Lebanon reported by FireEye in 2015
have all attempted to penetrate opposition computers and communications. Some of these operations are still active as
of the time of writing. This report adds one more threat actor to the list: Group5, which we name to reflect the four other
known malware groups.
Group5 stands out from the operations that have already been reported on: some of the tactics and tools used have not
been observed in this conflict; the operators seem comfortable with Iranian Persian dialect tools and Iranian hosting
companies; and they appear to have run elements of the operation from Iranian IP space.
https://citizenlab.org/2016/08/group5-syria/ 1/44
2016/8/3 Group5: Syria and the Iranian Connection - The Citizen Lab
Like a chameleon, Group5 borrows opposition text and slogans for e-mail messages and watering holes, showing
evidence of good social engineering and targeting. However, Group5’s technical quality is low, and their operational
security uneven. This is a common feature of many operations in the Syrian context: since the baseline security of many of
the targets is very low, many successful threat actors seem to conserve (and in some cases not possess) more
sophisticated techniques. We believe we identified Group5 early in its lifecycle, before all of the malware that had been
staged and prepared could be deployed in a full campaign.
Our analysis indicates that Group5 is likely a new entrant in Syria, and we outline the circumstantial evidence pointing to
an Iranian nexus. We do not conclusively attribute Group5 to a sponsor, although we suspect the interests of a state are
present, in some form. Group5 is just the latest addition to an expanding cast of actors targeting Syrian opposition groups,
and its entry into the conflict shows the continuing information security risks that they face.