// Introduction
Lazarus (aka APT38 / Hidden Cobra / Stardust Chollima) is one of the more prolific threat actors
in the APT panorama. Since 2009, the group leveraged its capability in order to target and
compromise a wide range of targets; Over the time, the main targets have been government and
defense institutions, organizations operating in the energy and petrochemical sector in addition to
those operating in financial and banking one.
The group has also a wide range of tools at its disposal; among these, it’s possible to catalog [D]
DoS botnets, first stage implanters, remote access tools (RATs), keyloggers and wipers. This list
of malicious tools has over time supported a series of operations that have ranged from
espionage to funding up sabotage.
This specific blog posts about concerns of a recent operation most likely carried out by this group
and directed towards targets located in different parts of the world. However, our analysis started
from a single malicious e-mail delivered against an important Italian institution operating in the
banking and financial sector.
https://blog.telsy.com/the-lazarus-gaze-to-the-world-what-is-behind-the-first-stone/ 1/9
11/7/2019 Telsy TRT
Starting from this email, we tried to trace back the path of the threat actor up to obtaining an
excellent degree of visibility on what was going on.
By tracking down malware variants, the actor’s operational logic and mechanisms were put in
place in order to limit the spread of the second-stage payloads.
However, in this intervention, we will describe only the first phase of the kill chain; Here, the threat
actor has provided for the release of two types of payloads based on the architecture of the
victim’s system as well as actions used in order to carry out a first recognition phase. Afterward,
some features of the remote script that was used for managing and controlling victims will be
explored. Further information about this campaign are available for our threat intelligence portal
customers by referring to the investigation ATR:78456 .