Dark Hotel/ Tapaoux/ Nemim/ Pioneer/ Karba
According to Kaspersky Lab, the Dark Hotel group may have been stealing confidential
documents out of the secured computers of travelling executives since 2007. Researchers
believe that the group is Korean in origin (in part) because variants of the malware were
designed to shut down and remove itself from the host system if the infected system code page
was set to Korean. Further, the kernel mode key logger used in Dark Hotel attacks has Korean
characters in its code and may be tied to a South Korean programmer. Since the group still
targets North Koreans, one could suppose the Dark Hotel group originates in South Korea. The
Dark Hotel attack campaigns use a sophisticated keylogger and extensive infrastructure to steal
confidential information directly relevant to South Korea from employees of other nations.
Consequently, there is a strong likelihood that Dark Hotel is a partially or fully state sponsored
threat actor.
The Dark Hotel group targets high-profile executives, sales and marketing employees,
R&D staff, and government employees from North Korea, Japan, India, and the United States.
Notably, targets tend to be from the Asian nations with nuclear capabilities and the Unites
States. Dark Hotel often targets guests staying at luxury hotels in Asia. A smaller number of
hotels in the United States have also been infected. Overall, fewer than two dozen hotel
25
network compromises have been discovered, but it is possible that many breaches remain
undiscovered or unreported. Hotels appear to be targeted based on the expectation that
specific individuals will be staying there in the near future. Evidence suggests that the adversary
possesses knowledge of the personal information of targets, at which hotel individual targets
will stay, and the duration of their stay. The attacks may target specific individuals or all
individuals who try to connect within a specific period. It is possible that the hotel attacks target
those unlikely to fall for a spear phishing campaign. Specific targets may be located based on
their Wi-Fi connection in the network, which is often secured with a password created from
their surname and room number. Either the actor targets the hotel network directly or on
occasion, it compromises the third party that manages the Wi-Fi for multiple hotels. The
malware is distributed across the network either before the staff arrives to work or after they
leave. When the target concludes their stay, the adversary removes all or most traces of the
attack from the hotel network. Neither backdoors nor tools are left behind.
Upon connection to the hotel Wi-Fi, target users encounter a malicious iframe that
redirects their browsers to fake update installers. Victims see a pop-up for a software update
(Adobe Flash, Google Toolbar, Windows Messenger, etc.) that is actually a malicious executable
piggybacking off a legitimate update installer. The installer delivers one of the group’s
backdoors to the victim system. Supposedly, the malicious download proceeds even if the user
becomes suspicious and attempts to terminate their Wi-Fi connection. In 2015, the group may
have begun to infect mobile devices through the same process. The malware remains dormant
for an estimated six months before data collection and exfiltration begins. This precaution
evades corporate IT efforts to scan a travelling executive’s computer upon their return to the
home network.
In addition to the hotel attacks, the group infects victims through spear-phishing attacks
and P2P networks. The spear phishing attacks are used to target a specific victim at a specific
hotel while the P2P campaigns infect as many hosts as possible with botnet malware. The spear
phishing campaigns typically target the defense sector, NGOs, and government entities. The
lure emails are titled with topics related to nuclear energy or weapon capabilities. If the target
ignores the spear phishing email, the group waits (up to a month) and then tries to spear phish
the target again. The emails contain links that redirect the victims to landing pages that deliver
zero-day exploits. Sometimes an attachment containing an Adobe zero-day exploit is included
instead. Recently, some of the emails have also relied on (former) zero-day exploits that were
revealed in the Hacking Team breach or have delivered malicious code disguised as .hta files.
In the P2P campaigns, the adversary compromises a swath of users through infected
torrented material. One example of how the adversary deploys malware along the P2P attack
vector was caught by Kaspersky Lab in 2013 - 2014. In this case, the malicious actor seeded
26
Japanese explicit comic book sites with the Karba trojan so that the malware would be widely
and wildly distributed when torrent users downloaded the pornographic material as RAR
archives on torrent clients. The archive in question was downloaded over 30,000 times over a
six-month period. Even if the attack was only marginally successful and the malware only
installed on a fraction of victim systems, the attacker still gained a sizable botnet. Considering
that the adversary could run numerous similar attacks simultaneously, it is safe to speculate
that the actor can leverage an enormous botnet in attacks. If the infected host system contains
interesting information, then the actor uses the botnet to install a backdoor and more
sophisticated tool kit on the system so that they can exfiltrate documents and data.
The malware appears as legitimate software verified by legitimate certificates. The
adversary did not steal certificates. Instead, the actors generated 22 certificates by exploiting a
certificate authority, DigiCert Sdn. Bhd., that belonged to the Malaysian government and
Deutsche Telekom, which was using weak 512-bit signing keys. To generate legitimate
certificates, the actor just factored weak 512-bit RSA digital signature keys. Some recent
malware and backdoors attributed to the group have featured SHA1 and RSA 2048-bit
certificates, which may have been stolen or generated from a different source.
The group’s toolkit predominately relies on a sophisticated 300 kb kernel mode
keystroke logger, which operates at the system core instead of at the application layer. As a
result, it bypasses most security and detection systems. The driver of the keylogger installs as
the system kernel driver “Ndiskpro” service, a self-described Microcode Update Device. The
keylogger retrieves data directly from the motherboard controller at port 0x60. A moniker in
the source code of the keylogger attributes it to “Chpie,” a South Korean coder. The data is
transferred to the user mode component, where it is encrypted (similar to RC4) and written to a
randomly named temporary (.tmp) file that is located in the same directory as the initial
dropper, which maintains persistence across reboots by amending the HKCU run key. The
toolkit also contains an information stealer, the Karba trojan, research environment detection
mechanisms, and selective infectors, droppers, and self-injectors. The information stealer
collects passwords and user credentials stored in browsers for email clients and social media
accounts. The Karba trojan collects system data and information about installed anti-virus
software. The primary dropper (recognized as Virus.Win32.Pioneer.dx) drops the selective
infector (igfxext.ece) to disk and runs it. The selective infector, true to its nature as a virus,
infiltrates and infects other computers through the network or through shared USB
connections. It also collects information and sends it back to the C2 infrastructure. At least nine
different backdoors have been used in conjunction with the toolkit.
No server level back doors were discovered on the hotel networks. Server logs show
that the attacker compromised the servers (through a currently unidentified attack vector),
27
infected the target hosts, deleted traces of their presence, and then abandoned the system
without leaving a backdoor or other malicious code behind. Since some attacks occurred over
years, it is likely that either the attacker deleted their backdoor when they abandoned the
server or that they had an insider in the target company.
Prior to discovery in October 2014, the C2C infrastructure consisted of over 200 servers
containing malware, botnet logs, and stolen data. After the campaigns were revealed to the
public in late 2014, much of the C2C infrastructure was shut down; however, the group remains
active as of 2016 on new infrastructure.