The email
This is the breach component of Taidoor, which is
pivotal to the attack. Taidoor emails are created
with varying degrees of sophistication and are
typically employed in a two-pronged attack.
The vast majority of emails used in these recent
attacks are sent from mail servers based in Tai­
wan and the US, as shown in figure 3. The coun­
try of origin will change depending on the targets
of the attack. For example the mails from France
contained subject matter related to the G20 sum­
mit in Paris, while those coming from Turkey were
directed at targets with Turkish email addresses.
Crafting the email
To begin with, the main target of interest is
identified. The content of the email is specifically
crafted in order to entice the chosen target into
opening it. The email is then either sent solely to
the target of interest or the target of interest plus
a group of other personnel working at the same
organization. This second strategy is popular with
more recent Taidoor attacks, as it would prove
useful in situations where compromising the main
target is proving difficult. Compromising a lowervalue target still provides a foothold within the
organization from where the attacker can then
attempt to move towards the true target.
Figure 3
Mail server country of origin for Taidoor emails
There are two types of content typically found in Taidoor emails. The first type is simple, requiring little-or-no
background research on the target. The content is general, typically including a catchy Subject line, a funny im­
age, a brief message, or a topical subject that may entice the user into opening the malicious attachment, such
as that displayed in figure 4.
Figure 4
A generic Taidoor email
The second type requires some background research on the intended target. Far more preparation is required,
as the email will need to contain content relevant to the target. The subject line, the message body and the at­
tached document will all contain information that might entice them into reading what is inside the attachment.
The content is typically related to policy or events that the target would be interested in or would likely attend.
The sender’s email address will also be doctored so that it appears to have come from a reputable source; some­
one they would probably recognize by name. This would likely be a co-worker, a speaker at an upcoming event, or
a prominent individual in their chosen field.
Here is an example of a targeted attack that took place on October 24, 2011. Over the course of the day, targeted
mails were sent to 25 individuals working at three separate organizations. The same malicious file was attached
to all the emails; however, the subject line and the message content differed. Examining the malicious attach­
ment we could see it was identical for each email. Here are the four subject lines used in these emails, followed
by an example email:
• Fwd: Panetta criticizes North Korea for reckless acts
• Panetta criticizes North  for reckless acts
• Returned mail: see transcript for details
• Warning: could not send message for past 4 hours
Figure 5
An targeted Taidoor email
Out of the 25 emails, 22 were sent through a Taiwanese mail server. They targeted individuals working at an
influential international think tank located in the US and were sent in quick succession. Later that day two more
emails containing an identical attachment were sent through a mail server located in the US. However this time
the emails targeted three prominent figures working at three separate organizations: one located in the US (the
think tank that was targeted in the earlier batch of emails) and two others in Germany. These three targets are
subject experts on military strategy and policy in South-East Asia. This tactic is typical of Taidoor, as mentioned
earlier, where one of these targets appears to be the “real” target of interest and the rest appear to be of lesser
interest, but could offer up useful information or be used as a stepping stone toward the true target.
Determining who the targets of interest are is
straightforward when examining the frequency
of targeted emails sent to individuals. As an
example, a target of interest at one of these
organizations is referred to as “Mr. X”.
Mr. X was sent up to 23 targeted Taidoor
emails in June 2011 —a substantial increase
from previous months. This individual was
consistently targeted for over nine months—by
far the most targeted individual. Such focus
demonstrates the persistence of the Taidoor
attackers. The repeated attempts indicate that
this target has been extremely difficult to com­
promise and is considered of high value.