Spear Phishing
Ukraine Attack
In the attack, the adversary delivered a targeted email with a malicious attachment that appeared to come from
a trusted source to specific individuals within the organizations. Initial mitigation recommendations would point
to end-user awareness training and ongoing phishing testing. Efforts to prevent malware have often
recommended application whitelisting, which can be effective in ICS environments if the ICS vendor approves of
the use. However, based on the details of this attack, application whitelisting would have had a limited role
contained to the execution of initial dropper infections in network segments with infected workstations (e.g.,
users that received and activated infected spear phish emails) where application whitelisting may be more
challenging to implement. It is important to note that application whitelisting would not have deterred or
prevented the second stage ICS attacks that impacted the Ukrainian oblenergos. In at least one instance, the
attacker used a remote rogue client and approved OS-level remote admin features for other components of the
attack.
The Next Attack
The adversary may conduct follow-on attacks that pursue alternative forms of social engineering campaigns, like
targeting the organization through large-scale phishing campaigns, using water-holing attacks, or conducting
direct-call campaigns to users or the help desk. They could also leverage technical exploits not requiring social
engineering of personnel.
36 https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/analyst/sliding-scale-cyber-security-36240
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
11
Defense Lessons Learned – Passive and Active Defenses
Opportunities to Disrupt
The adversary will likely modify attacks to respond to increases or changes in the target’s defenses. Defenders
need to develop anticipatory responses to attack effects. Since the social engineering components of attacks
targeted email and internet accessible cyber assets, these assets and the networks they reside on are untrusted
contested territory. Communication with these untrusted areas should be segmented, monitored, and
controlled. Operate under the assumption that the environment is accessible by the adversary and ensure
appropriate defenses are in place to protect the operations and control environment from the adversarycontrolled business cyber assets (while some organizations inherently trust their business systems and
networks, additional enforcement and scrutiny of these systems is necessary). Consider using sandboxing
technology to evaluate documents and emails coming into the network, using proxy systems to control
outbound and inbound communication paths, and limiting workstations to communicate only through the proxy
devices by implementing perimeter egress access controls.