2019
LONDON
2 – 4 October 2019
WWW.VIRUSBULLETIN.COM/CONFERENCE
Alexander, really, if we started together we need to fi nish it. Because for now
this is working and we can earn money. Not every day we are getting 100k for
promotion
Later on, however, it seems that the user taganchik.ru tried to leave the group:
2017-10-15l14:53
From taganchik.ru to powerfaer:
(...) But now im saying i am working but
in fact I dont. I am getting demotivated
and do not want to do anything
From taganchik.ru to powerfaer:
i thought about it, and im not in
From powerfaer to taganchik.ru:
Understand, ok. Shame. If you change
your mind write to me
Showing a complete lack of OpSec, the chat log also revealed credentials for several servers and
services, such as fttkit.com (an Android application protection service advertised on the Russian
underground site crimina.la). The log also disclosed the IDs of online wallets, and credit card
numbers. This information helped us fi nd sensitive information about the identity of some
individuals. For instance, ‘taganchik.ru’, ‘elkol95’ and ‘dmitrixxx89’ all advertise their services on
the same web marketing forum, https://searchengines.guru/.
The user powerfaer also engaged in conversations with several money launderers. The log confi rms
that online payment systems such as WebMoney, Qiwi, and Yandex Money remain popular among
Russian cybercriminals [15]. However, these services are not anonymous and it would be possible to
see the payments through third-party money launderers. The following is an example chat with the
user ‘cyberhosting.ru’:
On 2017-12-04 11:21
powerfaer wrote to cyberhosting.ru
And another question,
can you exchange cash to BTC?
A challenge for us during the analysis was to understand the Russian underground slang. For example,
the term white accounting should be translated to Russian as Белая бухгалтерия. However,
cybercriminals used the term белка, which in English means squirrel . The same issue applies to other
words like application, which translates to прила in Russian and has no direct translation in English.
After a deep OSINT analysis it was possible to infer a list of probable real names for the following
nicknames: ‘mirrexx777’, ‘powerfaer’, ‘cyberhosting.ru’, ‘taganchik.ru’, ‘doktorsaitov’,
‘dmitrixxx89’, and ‘maximchik700’. However, the names will not be published since their
implication in the Geost operation has not been confi rmed.
8. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
The discovery of the Geost Android banking botnet inside the traffi c of another malware proxy shows
that operational security is very hard to get right, and that simple mistakes can lead to deep
understanding of the operations of malware authors. After the discovery of the Geost botmasters
18 PAPER PRESENTED AT VB2019 LONDON
WWW.VIRUSBULLETIN.COM/CONFERENCE