2.8 Bootloader analysis
Further analysis required obtaining software images of corresponding versions from the official sources.
However, first the software versions needed to be identified. This could be done via the file name of the installed
application image. Furthermore, the following bootloader image versions were present on the counterfeit units
at hand:


Counterfeit A (operational):


Counterfeit B (inoperable):


The version strings appeared unique enough to allow a search for them within the uncompressed data sections
of the images at hand; see appendix 6.2 regarding the file format of the software image. In fact, they were
included as one monolithic image, likely directly copied to Flash in parts, starting from offset 0x7EE0000, taking
care to preserve inventory data. Bootloader images extracted from genuine software updates could then be
directly compared with their counterparts obtained from Flash content extracted directly from the units.
The c2960x-universalk9-mz.150-2.EX5.bin software image obtained from Counterfeit A did not contain
embedded bootloaders, so a search was conducted by grabbing multiple official images and matching version
numbers found in there. The c2960x-universalk9-mz.152-2.E.bin image provided the correct versions.
Checking the bootloader images obtained from Counterfeit A:

Two changes were made to HBOOT: the first one to 8 bytes inside the code section, and the second which

was considerably larger, appearing appended to the HBOOT image


Signature 1 data was intact


12 bytes modified right before the BROM code


BROM code was intact


Signature 2 data was different


Extra data is present around the code block at 0x7FFF000, as highlighted before


At this point, the process in place for verification of each software piece was not known. However, it was evident
that some tampering with HBOOT had taken place. To understand these modifications and their significance
within the context of the system, it is important to consider what was known about the System-on-Chip and the
way it booted up. The collected reference data is summarized in appendix 6.1.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 20
PUBLIC
Assuming the PowerPC core started executing at 0xFFFFFFFC, the Flash ROM could be safely placed at the upper
addresses so that the last 4 bytes in Flash, where we assumed the unconditional branch instruction was, map
starting at 0xFFFFFFFC.
After loading the last 1 megabyte or so of Flash into IDA Pro in the manner described above, we could start
exploring the code. The assumption made above regarding Flash mapping is validated by the fact that IDA Pro
could explore the code and create references automatically.
The branch instruction at 0xFFFFFFFC transferred control to the small blob of PowerPC instructions at
0xFFFFF000. This piece of code appeared to perform some basic initialization activities and passed control
further to BROM.
Judging by the contents of text strings included, BROM appeared to authenticate and start HBOOT and
provided a rudimentary set of commands to rescue the system from the state where HBOOT could be started.
While we were not as interested in the details of the command system, the image authentication functionality
was important to understand.
This functionality could be located easily by finding references to the tell-tale string Image passed digital
signature verification that was being printed on the serial console when image authentication succeeded.
The function referencing this string together with the companion failure message took 6 parameters, most
important of which were the base address of HBOOT and the signature 1 address. This meant signature 1 was in
fact the HBOOT signature.
By repeating the search and analysis on the HBOOT image, a similar function was identified that was used for
the same purpose of image authentication. This function was used to authenticate the application software
image; the process also showed up in console output. However, another use of the same function was made to
authenticate BROM code when it was being copied over to the Flash memory. Careful inspection of the
parameters being passed revealed that the BROM signature was located 0x2400 bytes before the image end,
which was exactly where signature 2 was located. We could therefore conclude that signature 2 authenticated
BROM code.
Further inspection of the signature verification implementation in both BROM and HBOOT showed the use of
some functions related to "SlimPro", as evident by corresponding error messages referenced by those functions:
The answer to the question of what this component might be came from various materials published by the
vendor. The SLIMpro was a separate computing unit integrated into the System-on-Chip and was responsible
for system-related security operations. The strings presented above confirmed this information. Further
information on the SoC can be found in appendix 6.1.
With a clear overview of what was verified, when, and how, a prominent question arose: how did BROM report
successful verification of the modified HBOOT code? Answering this required a review of what was already
known, and a deeper dive into the modifications performed on the hardware of the Counterfeit A unit. But first,
the changes done to HBOOT and their purpose were investigated.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 21
PUBLIC