Victim cases
We gained insight into significant BE2 victim profiles over the summer of 2014. Interesting BE2 incidents
are presented here.
Victim #1
The BE2 attackers successfully spearphished an organization with an exploit for which there is no current
CVE, and a metasploit module has been available This email message contained a ZIP archive with EXE
file inside that did not appear to be an executable. This crafted zip archive exploited a WinRAR flaw that
makes files in zip archives appear to have a different name and file extension.
BE2 spearphish example
The attached exe file turned out to be 'BlackEnergy-like' malware, which researchers already dubbed
'BlackEnergy3' - the gang uses it along with BlackEnergy2. Kaspersky Lab detects 'BlackEnergy3' malware
as Backdoor.Win32.Fonten – naming it after its dropped file "FONTCACHE.DAT"
When investigating computers in the company's network, only BE2 associated files were found, suggesting
BE3 was used as only a first-stage tool on this network. The config files within BE2 contained the settings
of the company's internal web proxy:
BE2 config file contains victim's internal proxy
As the APT-specific BE2 now stores the downloaded plugins in encrypted files on the system (not seen in
older versions – all plugins were only in-memory), the administrators were able to collect BE2 files from
the infected machines. After decrypting these files, we could retrieve plugins launched on infected
machines: ps, vsnet, fs, ss, dstr. By all appearances, the attackers pushed the 'dstr' module when they
understood that they were revealed, and wanted to hide their presence on the machines. Some machines
already launched the plugin, lost their data and became unbootable.
Desstructive dstr command in BE2 config file
Also, on some machines, documents were encrypted, but no related plugin could be found.
Victim #2
The second organization was hacked via the first victim's stolen VPN credentials. After the second
organization was notified about the infection they started an internal investigation. They confirmed that
some data was destroyed on their machines, so the BE2 attackers have exhibited some level of destructive
activity. And, they revealed that their Cisco routers with different IOS versions were hacked. They weren't
able to connect to the routers any more by telnet and found the following "farewell" tcl scripts in the
router's file system:
Ciscoapi.tcl – contains various wrappers over cisco EXEC-commands as described in the comments.
The comment includes a punchy message for "kasperRsky":
BE2 ciscoapi.tcl fragment
Killint.tcl – uses Ciscoapi.tcl, implements destroying functions:
BE2 killint.tcl fragment
The script tries to download ciscoapi.tcl from a certain FTP server which served as a storage for BE2 files.
The organization managed to discover what scripts were hosted on the server before BE/SandWorm gang
deleted them, and unfortunately couldn't restore them after they were deleted. The BE2 actor performs
careful, professional activity covering their tracks:
ciscoapi.tcl
killint.tcl
telnetapi2.tcl
telnetu.tcl
stub.tcl
stub1.tcl
There is evidence that the logs produced by some scripts were also stored on the FTP server, in particular
the information on CDP neighbors which is provided by one of the procedures of ciscoapi.tcl.
Victim #3
The third organization got compromised by the same type of attack as the first one (an EXE file spoofing a
doc within a Zip archive). All the plugins discovered in BE2 files were known, and there was no revelation
of hacked network devices on their side and no destroyed data. The noticeable thing is that many
computers contained both BE2 and BE3 files and some config files contained the following URL:
hxxps://46.165.222(dot)28/upgrade/f3395cd54cf857ddf8f2056768ff49ae/getcfg.php
The URL contains the md5 of the string 'router'. One of the discovered config files contained a URL with
an as yet unidentified md5:
hxxps://46.165.222(dot)28/upgrade/bf0dac805798cc1f633f19ce8ed6382f/upgrade.php
Victim set #4
A set of victims discovered installed Siemens SCADA software in their ICS environment was responsible
for downloading and executing BlackEnergy. Starting in March 2014 and ending in July 2014, Siemens
"ccprojectmgr.exe" downloaded and executed a handful of different payloads hosted
at 94.185.85.122/favicon.ico. They are all detected as variants of "Backdoor.Win32.Blakken".