Enum value rotation
For some unknown reason, Jian contains the syscall definitions for a 32-bit exploit, on top
of those needed for the 64-bit exploit. While they aren’t used in practice, as the sample is
64-bit, they still give us a glimpse of how their 32-bit exploit would have looked.
We can see that Jian’s 32-bit logic for each syscall ID once again matches that of the
Equation Group sample, up to the level of adjusting some IDs based on the refined Service
Pack Major Number.
30/36
Figure 29: Jian’s logic for configuring 32-bit syscalls, using a refined Service Pack value.
The problem is, if we check the actual syscall numbers for Windows XP Service Pack 0
and Service Pack 1, we can see that the condition for setting the value of SP_delta is
flawed. It was correct for the Equation Group exploit, but is not correct here as APT31
modified the wSpMajor_refined value during the exploit’s initialization.
31/36
Figure 30: Jian’s rotation of almost all wSpMajor values.
This value update is even stranger, as the Equation Group exploits have no mention of it
whatsoever:
Figure 31: Equation Group exploit setting the value of wSpMajor_refined .
You might ask, “Why would someone perform the above value rotation?” The answer is
actually rather simple. From our past analyses of several exploits attributed to Chineseaffiliated actors, we saw that the developers have a habit of using the value 0 as a marker
for “illegal value.” This can be clearly seen as all Service Pack values above 6 are mapped
back to the value 0, which marks them as “illegal.” This was also the case for the OS
Version Enum, which was fully incremented by 1, making Windows NT use a value of 1
instead of 0, and reserving the sacred value of 0 to mark an error state.
And yet, this time the developers used only a partial rotation for the Service Pack value,
causing a collision with the legitimate value for Service Pack 0 which for some reason they
didn’t remap to “1”. This means that 0 is simultaneously an illegal value that shouldn’t be
32/36
supported, and a legitimate value that is crucial for configuring the correct syscall
numbers. The correct adjustment should probably have been to increment all values by 1,
map the illegal values to 0, and adjust the syscall check to wSpMajor_refined != 1 .
Once again, we see a weird pattern. Even under the premise that Chinese exploits should
reserve the value 0 for illegal values, the code still looks odd. A developer writing this
exploit from scratch would probably have just incremented the wSpMajor_refined
value by 1, while remembering that in future checks Service Pack 0 is marked with the
value 1. Instead, as if not to break an existing piece of code, the syscall initialization still
checks for 0, and this value is simultaneously both valid and illegal at the same time.
A more probable explanation is that the original code was the Equation Group version,
and that the developers affiliated with Chinese attack groups were afraid to break it, thus
going only half-way in remapping the values. This fear of breaking the code also reflects
on their poor understanding of the overall exploit.