Recovery and Reconstitution Challenges in Post-Ransomware Scenarios
Following a ransomware attack, sustained business operations
are predicated on an organization’s ability to restore and
reconstitute systems, data and access in a secure manner.
Ideally, recovery and reconstitution should run parallel to the investigation into
how an attacker was able to gain access, move laterally, steal data (if applicable)
and deploy ransomware. If recovery and reconstitution steps are not performed
securely, an attacker will likely maintain their access, resulting in continued risk,
extended downtime and future attacks.
Investigative Steps to Empower recovery and Reconstitution
Mandiant experts noted that organizations that led successful recovery and
reconstitution efforts were empowered by facts and evidence identified from
investigating the ransomware incident prior to taking action. To ensure a secure
recovery and reconstitution plan when responding to ransomware incidents,
Mandiant experts prioritize answering the following questions:
                       - What persistence mechanisms (backdoors) are being used by an attacker to

maintain access within the environment?
                       - What command-and-control (CnC) channels are being used by an attacker for

access that need to be blocked either at ingress and egress points, or using
host-based endpoint firewalls?
                       - How was the ransomware deployed (manual propagation using a tool such as

PsExec, group policy modification, scheduled tasks or logon script)?
                       - Can the ransomware propagation vector be stopped and contained?


                       - Which compromised accounts can be used for lateral movement and

ransomware deployment?
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 46


Which endpoints still exhibit a running encryptor?


What was the primary vector used for initial access?


Which accounts have privileged access within the environment?


As specific facts are uncovered and correlated, proper isolation and hardening
steps must be aligned to recovery and reconstitution workstreams. Until specific
investigative information about the ransomware event is understood (primary
persistence methods and backdoors, CnC channels, ransomware propagation
mechanisms and scope of compromised accounts), an organization may be forced
to temporarily disconnect access from the Internet to begin triaging, reviewing and
securely planning for hardening and recovery.
Use of Secure Enclaves
Organizations that were able to successfully recover and reestablish operations
used processes that included the use of secure enclaves (such as VLANs) to safely
restore and reconstitute systems. Initially, systems housed within the enclaves were
restricted from communicating with most impacted systems and were designated
as a clean (green) source of trust and security within the environment.
Systems within the enclaves were only permitted to communicate with trusted
endpoints and security (EDR) tools and with investigative tools used to ensure
the endpoints were not exhibiting signs of active encryptors or other malicious
activity.
Restored or newly-built domain controllers were usually the first endpoints
established within the secure enclaves and connectivity to additional endpoints
was expanded once the initial ransomware outbreak had been successfully
contained.
Common Contributors to a Degraded Recovery and
Reconstitution Workstream
Active Directory Lock-Out
Throughout 2020, Mandiant observed attackers not only deploying ransomware
within victim environments but also locking out administrators from Active
Directory. Even if domain controllers were operational, after an attacker
obtained domain administrative privileges, they changed the passwords for valid
administrator accounts. As a result, organizations were unable to regain access and
subsequent control within Active Directory to begin recovery and reconstitution
actions. To regain access to Active Directory, organizations often had to boot a
domain controller from physical media and replace the Utility Manager binary
(utilman.exe) with cmd.exe. Consequently, when the user clicked on Utility
Manager (on the login screen) they actually launched a command prompt from
which a new password could be set for a known account.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 47
Domain Controller Restoration Challenges
When ransomware is deployed within an environment, domain authentication and
the ability to connect to domain-based resources are generally impacted. To begin
recovery and reconstitution efforts, most organizations will prioritize restoring
domain controllers to an operational state. Unfortunately, when domain controller
backups are unavailable or have been corrupted, organizations may be faced with
rebuilding their domain infrastructure.
The corruption of SYSVOL is often one of the main factors resulting in domain
authentication and domain services being unavailable. SYSVOL refers to a set of
folders and files that are present and replicated amongst each domain controller.
When the contents of SYSVOL (which include group policy templates and settings
as well as scripts) are either encrypted or corrupted and replication occurs,
the contents cascade to all domain controllers and impact domain operations.
Without timely backups, rebuilding and reconstituting SYSVOL can be a complex
process. To avoid having to rebuild SYSVOL entirely, organizations should ensure
backup processes include system state backups of domain controllers. If system
state backups are not possible, organizations should at least back up the SYSVOL
directory and data tree (%SYSTEMROOT%\SYSVOL) as well as the Active
Directory database (%SYSTEMROOT%\ntds\ntds.dit). Ideally, domain controller
backups should be stored and secured either offline or on storage clusters that
are logically segmented and restricted from being directly accessed using
domain accounts.
When restoring Active Directory from domain controller backups was the only
viable option to reconstitute domain services, organizations first needed to
ensure they had a working and tested backup plan and strategy to guarantee the
availability and integrity of the schema and domain services which needed to be
reconstituted. The following domain controller recovery and reconstitution best
practices should be proactively reviewed by the organization:

Offline backups—offline domain controller backups should be secured and

stored separately from online backups.


Encryption—backup data should be encrypted both during transit (over the
wire) and when at rest or mirrored for offsite storage.


DSRM Password validation—the Directory Services Restore Mode (DSRM)


password should be set to a known value for each domain controller. This
password is required when performing an authoritative or non-authoritative
domain controller restoration.

Alert configuration for backup operations—backup products and technologies

should be configured to detect and provide alerting for operations critical to
the availability and integrity of backup data (such as deletion of backup data,
purging of backup metadata, restoration events and media errors).

Role-based access control—Access to backup media and the applications that

govern and manage data backups should use role-based access controls to
restrict accounts with access to stored data and configuration parameters.

Testing and verification—both authoritative and non-authoritative domain

controller restoration processes should be documented and tested.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 48
Insufficient Backup and Restoration Processes
Organizations that lacked effective backup and restoration processes struggled
to reestablish business operations in a timely manner. This resulted in extended
downtime, financial impacts, regulatory challenges and an overall impact to brand
reputation. Many organizations were either unable to restore and reconstitute data
to meet business operations requirements or had to fully rebuild core systems and
applications, which further impacted business continuity.
Organizations that had effective backup and restoration processes were able to
mobilize quickly and invoke secure restoration activities which ran in parallel to
the overall investigation and environment hardening workstreams. Examples of
effective backup and restoration processes include:

Clear delineation of responsibility for managing and verifying data and

application backups.

Alignment of backup and restoration processes with business continuity and

disaster recovery plans.


Online and offline data backup retention policies, including initiation, frequency,
verification and testing (for both on-premises and cloud-based data).


Backup infrastructure that was segmented within the environment and only
accessible using dedicated accounts for interfacing with and managing backup


platforms and storage.


A well-defined understanding of crown jewels data and supporting applications
which align to backup, failover and restoration tasks that prioritize mission
critical business operations.


Role-based access control that restricts the scope of accounts with access to


backup media and the applications that govern and manage data backups, as
well as stored data and configuration parameters.

Training and validation exercises for failover and restoration tasks that focuses

not only on data, but also crown jewel applications and services.

Established service level agreements (SLAs) with vendors to prioritize

application and infrastructure-focused support.
Summary
Ransomware resiliency defenses encompass a combination of technical and
process-oriented controls. When organizations are unprepared, the impact can
be time-consuming and costly. Throughout 2020, Mandiant worked with many
organizations to proactively review, test, and enhance defenses to combat
ransomware. While challenges remain, applying best practices can go a long way
towards realizing robust recovery and reconstitution efforts.
SPECIAL REPORT M-TRENDS 2021 49