5. CONCLUSION
The attackers in this engagement primarily used modified versions of legitimate
administrative tools, commonly used penetration testing utilities and common
network file acquisition tools. Though specialty malware was observed during
this intrusion, the attackers used basic XOR encoding just above Layer 4 to
facilitate communication, communicated via SSH tunnel directly over TCP/443,
or just transmitted and received data in clear text across the network. Of the
observed actions during this intrusion, none of the attacker tools, techniques or
procedures was particularly advanced. However, they were still able to bypass
a significant security stack, obtain initial access and lateral access effectively,
deploy malware and toolsets with impunity, and traverse over 150 systems in
the span of six weeks. While, at first glance, this attack was not sophisticated
in its toolset, it was sophisticated in its operationalization and agility of actions
taken by the attackers. Upon reviewing the entirety of tools used in this
engagement, operational correlations can be made between the Linux and
Windows toolsets, as illustrated in Table 26.
|Cross Platform Toolsets and Purpose|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|Linux|Windows|Functon|
|Winexe|Tinyp|Lateral Movement|
|Auditunnel (LinuxVersion)|Auditunnel (WindowsVersion)|Ingress Tunneling|
|PScan (Linux Version)|PScan (WindowsVersion)|Internal Recon|
|WGet (Linux Version)|WGet (WindowsVersion)|Toolset Download|
|SCP|PSCP|File Transfer|
52
Table 26: Cross-Platform Toolset Utilization
The CARBANAK actors not only showed the capability to successfully
compromise both Linux and Windows systems but they chose a toolset that
was either directly cross-platform or extremely similar in both function
and command line usage. This indicates a level of tactical organization and
operationalization not previously observed by this actor group. Additionally,
they were significantly cognizant and aware of actions taken by the security
team, switching to new methods of ingress after initial compromise, detected
remediation actions and environmental migration. They were methodical in
their choice of staging systems, basing the system utilized on:


a critical function of lateral access (such as systems BRAVO and DELTA ) or


responder detection and investigation (such as system CHARLIE )


They chose key systems based on their needs rather than systems the
organization would consider ‘key’ assets. They ensured the toolsets they
would interact with most often contained very similar functions and
commands across environments in order to limit mistakes made at the
53
WHITE PAPER
keyboard. They included a method, whether manually or automatically, to
remove records of their activities. They operated with purpose, patience,
planning and, most significantly, persistence.
This intrusion was successfully discovered, investigated, contained,
eradicated and remediated only due to the following reasons:

The organization invested in the necessary visibility at a host and network

level to allow analysts to rapidly and effectively hunt for and investigate
these types of threats.

The organization had invested and empowered their personnel to

creatively and proactively hunt for, understand, investigate and learn from
threats within their environment.

The organization had maintained a relationship with a proven and trusted

advisory practice and had worked to recreate and implement a solid and
proven Threat Hunting and Incident Response methodology within their
own organization.

The organization had a solid top-down understanding of what role

Threat Hunting and Incident Response held during daily operations and
security incidents, and provided the necessary support and enablement to
subordinate units and analysts.
While a first look at the tools used in this engagement may appear simplistic,
upon review of the entire intrusion it becomes quickly apparent that each
of them was purpose-chosen with an overall operationalized capability in
mind. CARBANAK has shown themselves to be a coordinated and extremely
persistent group of actors that are consistently moving towards more agile
methods of intrusion and standardization of processes across heterogeneous
environments. They have proven their capability to use that persistence
and agility to defeat or bypass organizational security controls. Even with
the least advanced of their capabilities, they can be a difficult adversary to
track within an environment due to their speed, efficiency, adaptability and
care in leaving little trace of any activity. However, this difficulty compounds
exponentially for organizations without the necessary visibility, practices,
methodologies or trusted partner relationships necessary to effectively
detect and respond to these types of threats. This case study shows that
with the necessary visibility, planning, methodology and analyst enablement,
organizations can be successful against these types of threats.
Disclaimer: This white paper and related graphics are provided for
informational and/or educational purposes. RSA is not responsible for errors,
omissions or for results obtained from the use of this information. This
white paper is being provided “as-is,” with no guarantee of completeness,
timeliness or accuracy, and without warranty of any kind. This white paper
is not intended to be a substitute for legal or other professional advice, and
constitutes the opinions of the author(s).
WHITE PAPER