PWNLNX5 – The Controller
The controllers were all named “lancer.exe” and compiled on October 16, 2018. It
appeared that the operator of the malware was working from a Cambodian IP address
and likely testing to see if their version of the controller was detected by any industry
vendors by uploading it to a common virus repository.
The threat actor similarly uploaded a tool a few days earlier that was called
“OnLineTestBox.exe” that was compiled on October 12, 2018. This tool was used to
simulate traffic with a C2 and allowed the user to set a couple of predefined variables to
test. The tool would be useful to determine whether traffic throughput was adequate and
if the receiving server was working appropriately. Here’s what the interface looked like:
Figure 8: C2 Network Throughput Testing Utility Interface
The controller presented the operator with a nicely formatted Graphic User Interface
(GUI) for controlling infected machines, and internally referred to itself as “Lancer Alpha
build 2017”. The binary would look for the following files in the same directory where
it was located and perform an MD5 check for each of the files listed below before
starting normally:
Table 3: File Checks Performed by Lancer.exe
BlackBerry researchers were unable to fully emulate the controller, but it should be
possible to patch the hash checks and reverse the format of the expected files. The
code indicated that “res.zip” likely contained two additional files: “TaskMenu.xml” and
“Main.xml”. After parsing these two files, several other files would be created and/or
referenced, including “\data\info.dat” and “\data\pathList.dat”.
Several other XML configuration files were also utilized by the malware to preform
various functions based upon commands issued by the operator, but they appeared
to be created on-the-fly when issuing commands. Interestingly, a directory named
“\Log\” would also be created within the same directory, presumably for logging
purposes. The controller also contained a fair amount of content that would be outputted
via debug strings.
D E C A D E O F T H E R A T S 22