1.12. Mitigating the Risk Posed by Destructive Malware
When it comes to destructive attacks, the critical actions for security teams to take are early
detection and escalation and coordinated response to contain and stop the spread. Here are
some tips from our team that can help mitigate the risk of destructive malware.
10 https://www.cnbc.com/2019/09/21/saudi-aramco-attacks-could-predict-cyber-warfare-from-iran.html
11 https://www.energy.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=03BA54D2-A59B-43F8-A26D-CD027E675022
12 https://fas.org/irp/eprint/cyber strat.pdf
13 https://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/24/business/global/cyberattack-on-saudi-oil-firm-disquiets-us.html
14 https://www.opec.org/opec_web/en/data_graphs/330.htm
New Destructive Wiper “ZeroCleare” Targets Energy Sector in the Middle East | X-Force IRIS
Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restrictions at the end of this document. 24
1.12.1. Use and share threat intelligence to understand the risk to your
organization
Each threat actor has different motivations, capabilities, and intentions, and threat intelligence
can help provide insights that increase the efficacy of an organization’s preparedness and
eventual response to an incident. After the release of the ZeroCleare paper, our team received
more information from other research teams which helped us calibrate certain IOCs in the
paper. Sharing threat intelligence is a practice defenders must prioritize to better mitigate risk.
1.12.2. Build effective defense-in-depth
Incorporate multiple layers of security controls across the entire Cyberattack Preparation and
Execution Framework.
Figure 3: X-Force IRIS Cyberattack Preparation and Execution Framework (Source: IBM X-Force)
1.12.3. Deploy IAM, limit privileged users, and implement MFA
In most attacks, adversarial actors leverage privileged accounts to expand their foothold in
compromised networks. Limit the number of those accounts to a minimum and back them up
with multi-factor authentication (MFA). Also, don’t allow one account to access all systems.
Deploy Identity and Access Management (IAM) to apply business-process centric policies to
what your users can access. That way, if their account is compromised, the attacker will have a
harder time using it for access to other parts of the network.
Leveraging IAM can also help baseline legitimate access and alert security teams when lateral
movement could be abusing access to compromised accounts.
New Destructive Wiper “ZeroCleare” Targets Energy Sector in the Middle East | X-Force IRIS
Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restrictions at the end of this document. 25
1.12.4. Have backups, test backups, and keep offline backups
Backing up systems is a foundational best practice, but ensuring the organization has effective
backups of critical systems and testing these backups is more important than ever. Being able
to use backups in recovery can make a significant difference in remediating destructive
malware attacks.
1.12.5. Test your response plans under pressure
Use of a well-tailored tabletop exercise and a cyber range simulation can help ensure that your
teams are indeed ready, on both the tactical and strategic levels, to manage a destructive
malware incident.
Rehearsed response plans require ongoing testing and adjustment, but they allow the IR team
to carry out plans and be able to implement them effectively when the time comes to respond
and remediate.
For emergencies or if your organization is under attack, please call:
X-FORCE EMERGENCY RESPONSE HOTLINE 888-241-9812
New Destructive Wiper “ZeroCleare” Targets Energy Sector in the Middle East | X-Force IRIS
Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restrictions at the end of this document. 26