3 The authentication analysis on the technology sources of this attack
The leading PE files, Sample_A and Sample B, associated by analysts of Antiy CERT used the exactly same
method of PowerShell. However, we cannot eliminate the possibility that Sample_A has no positive connection
with this attack due to the high standardization of relevant scripts. We still consider it as a series of attack incidents
based on other comprehensive analysis. The attacker might exploit the following ways to control the target host,
such as social engineering e-mails, file bundling, exploiting system and application vulneratbilities, lateral
© Antiy Labs. All rights reserved. Page 7
Analysis on APT-to-be Attack That Focusing on China's Government Agency
movement of intranet and so on.
We found “Beacon” strings when analyzing “Module 1”. According to existed experience, we doubted that
Shellcode is closely related with automatic attack testing platform Cobalt Strike. Therefore, our analysts carried out
comparison analysis on Beacon generated by Cobalt Strike, and authenticated the relationships between them.
Cobalt Strike is the GUI framework penetration tool based on metasploit. The business version of it integrates the
following characteristics: service scan, automatic overflow, multi-mode port espionage, various Trojan generation,
phishing attack, site clone, target information obtaining, automatic browser attack and so on.
3.1 Comparison of Module 1
We compared module 1 and the payload generated by using Beacon, and found only the following different data:
the Head data, request file name and IP address.
Figure 14 Comparison of Module 1
The left is sample module 1, while the right is the module generated by Beacon. We can lead to the conclusion from
the comparison: module 1 is generated by Beacon.
The screenshot of data package in request is as follows:
© Antiy Labs. All rights reserved. Page 8
Analysis on APT-to-be Attack That Focusing on China's Government Agency
Figure 15 The data package comparison of module 1
3.2 Comparison of disassembling commands of module 2
Our analysts compared sample module 2 and relevant files of Beacon, and found that the disassembling commands
between them are exactly the same with exception of functionality code, including XOR encryption at the entry,
downloading system DLL, obtaining function address, function calling modes and so on. The following lists three
points.
|Sample module 2 Relevant Beacon files|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|XOR decryption at the entry(Using x86/shikata_ga_nai)|||
© Antiy Labs. All rights reserved. Page 9
Analysis on APT-to-be Attack That Focusing on China's Government Agency
|Thedecryptedcode atthe entry|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|Functioncalls|||
3.3 Comparison analysis on module 3 data package
The following figure is the GET request comparison of the module generated by sample module 3 and Beacon.
Here we can see both of them use Cookie to transmit information that has been encrypted, and send requests
actively every 60 seconds. The data package is heartbeat.
© Antiy Labs. All rights reserved. Page 10
Analysis on APT-to-be Attack That Focusing on China's Government Agency
Figure 16 Comparison of module 3 data package
3.4 Characteristics of Cobalt Strike
Using Cobalt Strike attack can execute various operations in the targeted systems, such as downloading and
uploading files, executing designated programs, injecting keyboard recorder, executing commands via PowerShell,
importing PowerShell script, executing commands via CMD, accessing system passwords and so on.
Cobalt Strike has the following characteristics:
 Penetrating sandbox
 Avoiding whitelist mechanism and cloud detection
 Intranet penetration
 Persistent attacks
 Attacking various platforms