Recent Watering Hole Attacks Attributed to APT Group “th3bug” Using Poison Ivy
We’ve uncovered some new data and likely attribution regarding a series of APT watering hole attacks this
past summer. Watering hole attacks are an increasingly popular component of APT campaigns, as many
people are more aware of spear phishing and are less likely to open documents or click on links in
unsolicited emails. Watering hole attacks offer a much better chance of success because they involve
compromising legitimate websites and installing malware intended to compromise website visitors. These
are often popular websites frequented by people who work in specific industries or have political
sympathies to which the actors want to gain access.
The attacks discussed in this blog are related to an APT campaign commonly referred to as “th3bug”,
named for the password the actors often use with their Poison Ivy malware. Of note, only the older of the
samples we cover in this blog used that password. We don’t know the reason the actors changed this, but
it could possibly be in reaction to information widely published on the Internet about their activities,
which use that password as a key component to tie the activity together. FireEye in particular published a
paper describing several APT campaigns whose activity they correlate using Poison Ivy passwords.
In contrast to many other APT campaigns, which tend to rely heavily on spear phishing to gain victims,
“th3bug” is known for compromising legitimate websites their intended visitors are likely to frequent.
Over the summer they compromised several sites, including a well-known Uyghur website written in that
native language.
While we were unable to recover the initial vulnerability used, it is possibly the same CVE 2014-0515
Adobe Flash exploit first reported by Cisco TRAC in late July. We cannot confirm the initial compromised
sites, but we noted traffic to several known re-direct sites and the malware was configured to use the same
command and control (C2) server.
In addition, the download dates of many of our files pre-date those noted by Cisco by only a few days. All
of the malware were variants of the Poison Ivy Remote Administration Tool (RAT) and were properly
identified as such by our WildFire platform. The targets of the attack were:
Uyghur sympathizers
An East Asian office for a major US based computer manufacturer
A major US university
An international wholesale and retail telecom provider
We saw the first sample on July 14, 2014. This sample had an interesting PDB string – C:
\Users\sophie\documents\visual studio 2010\Projects\init\Release\init.pdb with a time date string that
exactly matched the PE timestamp of 11 July, 2014.