APPENDIX C: Mitigations Guidance
Defending Against Webshell Attacks
Defend

Continually patch all webservers and all web components servicing the site, including PHP,

Apache, IIS, and ColdFusion. Deploying a webshell typically requires adding to, or
modifying, the code presented by the web server and is often accomplished via an exploit of
a web server vulnerability. Patching all components that service the web server provides a
substantial mitigation against most commonly known vulnerabilities.

Adhere to least privilege principles for server access and management. Through following

the principle of least privilege, lateral movement and privilege escalation is made more
challenging to an attacker by restricting access on the box and across the network.

Restrict write access to all folders that contain files served by the web server. All content

served by the web server should be tightly controlled in such a way that only web
administrator accounts can modify or add content. This would force an attacker to gain
specific sets of credentials before they could add any malicious content to be delivered by the
server.

Restrict access to all ports and administrative panels. Server ports are typically very

predictable, and access to those ports should be constrained to only the services and users
that require them. This will reduce the attack surface on the web server and supporting
applications.

Deploy and configure Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) on supported Linux specific

systems. SELinux has the capability to lock down web services such as Apache and can be
configured to allow the service to access only certain directories. The administrators could
possibly include /var/www/html, which contains the actual pages being served up. If a site
has upload capabilities, then SELinux could help with least privilege by restricting read/write
access on these folders as well. The web service already runs in a lower privilege context, but
SELinux would also limit the file locations that it can actually access. This would prevent
arbitrary file writes and possible malware uploads to areas that an admin would not normally
detect.

Conduct regular vulnerability scans and establish a remediation strategy focusing on the most

detrimental findings first. Regular scanning and remediation measures will remove
opportunities to exploit known attack vectors by an adversary.

Deploy a Web Application Firewall (WAF). WAF technologies defend against common web

exploitation techniques such as SQL injection and cross site scripting. Deploying this
capability helps reduce the likelihood of a successful web attack on the server that could
otherwise allow the perpetrator to modify code and deploy the webshell.
50 of 56 50 of 56 TLP:WHITE

Where third party products are integrated into the website (e.g., Adobe ColdFusion) ensure

that the product is configured according to DoD or vendor published hardening best
practices. [1]
Detect

Conduct regular log review. Key sources should include the network and host firewalls,

Intrusion Prevention System, proxy, and local event logs. Events of interest should include
high usage rates to suspicious IPs, odd timestamps on web files (dates that don’t match
previous content updates), odd connections destined for internal networks, suspicious files in
internet accessible locations, references to key words such as cmd.exe or eval. [4] Auditing
should involve some kind of aggregator to store and secure the logs remotely. Even the best
auditing on the web server is useless if the attacker can just manipulate or delete them once
they have obtained control. The logs should be protected and regularly rolled up to a
centralized location for integration into a security information and event management system.

Develop all content in an offline environment and maintain a hash list of all web files.

Frequently compare the hashes of the files on the web server to the known good list
maintained offline (an automated method is preferred).

Obtain regular full system backups (including snapshots if it is a virtual machine).

Forensically the known good data that these can provide is extremely useful for detection.
Having a copy of the filesystem before a compromise to compare against the postcompromise filesystem can be a benefit to any analysis.

Analyze traffic flows looking for certain anomalous behaviors such as prolonged

connections, data frequently being pushed to the server (e.g., commands being sent to the
shell), frequent large data transfers (an indication of data exfiltration), and abnormal
encryption (anything that is not SSL/TLS or that negotiates using an alternate certificate) as
indicators of potential nefarious activity. [2]
Contain

Internet facing web servers should be deployed to a DMZ. All traffic to internal networks

from the DMZ should be significantly constrained and highly monitored.

Restrict outbound communications from the DMZ to all other networks. Communications

originating in the DMZ destined for the internal network should be minimal at most (ideally
this should never happen). An attacker who gains access to a web server in the DMZ should
have no capability to leverage that access in order to gain direct additional access in the
internal network. Web server communications to the internet should be restricted to http/https
only. All other ports and protocols should be blocked.
1 https://helpx.adobe.com/coldfusion/community-documentation/coldfusion-lockdown-guide.html
2 https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/alerts/TA15-314A
51 of 56 51 of 56 TLP:WHITE

When a Domain Controller (DC) is necessary in the DMZ, it is recommended that a

standalone DC and forest structure be deployed. Additionally, all accounts and resources in
the DMZ instance should have no association or likeness to the internal network.

Ensure separation of admin accounts. The web admin account should not be the same admin

account that is used elsewhere on the domain.
Respond

When a compromise is found, reset all credentials associated with the webserver (this may

expand to all accounts in the DMZ if it is suspected that the compromise has expanded to the
DC). This should include all user and service accounts, all domain accounts that have logged
onto that host and all local accounts, to include the Kerberos master ticket granting ticket on
the DC. Depending on the circumstances, it may also be necessary to take the suspected
server(s) or network offline during the remediation process.

All server files should be wiped and restored from a known good source. The organization

should prepare for a disaster recovery situation that includes a system compromise. Regular
backups and offline storage of the data files should be made before being transferred to the
DMZ production environment.

When all other response techniques have failed at remediating the suspected compromise, the

server(s) should be completely rebuilt or replaced. All data reconstitution efforts should stem
from a known good source (offline backup).
Defending Against Spear Phishing Attacks
Defend

Enforce application whitelisting on all endpoint workstations to prevent droppers or

unauthorized software from gaining execution on endpoints. Many phishing attacks involve
an executable that is dropped and installed on the victim’s machine. Application Whitelisting
will allow the organization to monitor programs and allow only those that are on the
approved whitelist to execute. This would help to stop the initial attack, even if the user has
clicked the link or opened a malicious attachment. There are many baseline rulesets that
come with the vendor product, but the organization should ensure that at least the user Temp
directories are blocked for execution since this is where numerous phishing emails attempt to
drop and execute malware.

Disable Macros in office products. Macros are a common method for executing code through

an attached office document. Macros were often used as a means for initial exploitation in the
late 1990s and early 2000s but have seen a recent resurgence in frequency of use. Some
office products allow for the disabling of macros that originate from outside of the
organization and can provide a hybrid approach when the organization depends on the
legitimate use of macros. For Windows, specific settings can be configured to block Internet
originated macros from running. This can be done in the Group Policy Administrative
Templates for each of the associated Office products (specifically Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint). For example, to enable the policy setting for Microsoft Word 2016, in the
52 of 56 52 of 56 TLP:WHITE
Group Policy Management Editor, select: User Configuration > Administrative Templates
> Microsoft Word 2016 > Word Options > Security > Trust Center > Block macros
from running in Office files from the Internet [3]

Utilize up to date web browsers on the network for increased security enhancements. These

improvements may include a sandboxing feature that would allow the browser to contain any
malicious content and protect the endpoint if an emailed link is clicked.

Deploy web and email filters on the network and configure these devices to scan for known

bad domains, sources, and addresses; block these before messages are received and
downloaded. This action will help to reduce the attack surface at the network’s first level of
defense. In addition, attachments should be filtered. The network defenses should only allow
approved extensions to pass through to the email client. Most .exe, scripting extensions
(including .bat, .js, and .ps1) and other executable extensions should be blocked.

Scan all emails, attachments, and downloads both on host and at the mail gateway with a

reputable antivirus solution that includes cloud reputation services. Taking advantage of
cloud reputation advancements provides rapid response capabilities and the integration of a
broad base of cyber defense intelligence.

Organizations should ensure that they have disabled HTML from being used in emails, as

well as disabling links. Everything should be forced to plain text. This will reduce the
likelihood of potentially dangerous scripts or links being sent in the body of the email, and
also will reduce the likelihood of a user just clicking something without thinking about it.
With plain text, the user would have to go through the process of either typing in the link or
copying and pasting. This additional step will allow the user an extra opportunity for thought
and analysis before clicking on the link.

Establish a training mechanism to inform end users on proper email and web usage as well as

common indicators of phishing to be aware of. This training should be done at least annually
and should include a test that is scored and available for viewing by management and/or the
IT Security department. The training should inform users what suspicious emails look like,
what to do when they suspect phishing, as well as explain what they should post on any
websites in terms of personally identifiable information (PII) that may be used for phishing
campaigns (including email addresses, job titles, names, etc.). Consider real life interactive
training simulations where users are sent suspicious emails on a semi regular basis and
subsequently redirected to a phishing training site should they fail to adhere to the
organization’s best practices and policies.
Detect

Monitor event logs, email logs, and firewall logs for any indicators of a potential attack.

These could include emails from suspicious domains, installation of programs on machines
3 https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/mmpc/2016/03/22/new-feature-in-office-2016-can-block-
macros-and-help-prevent-infection/
53 of 56 53 of 56 TLP:WHITE
that are unusual or not approved, unusual call outs to the internet from office products, nonsmtp traffic from the email client, strange child processes under the parent office process, or
spoofed domains sending or receiving traffic from the network. Strange Traffic/Behavior
(e.g., Spamming others) should also be looked for in the various logs. This is a strong
indicator that machine(s) are compromised in some way.

Using the antivirus software that is installed on the mailbox server and all of the clients,

review the alerts and logs regularly for any activity on the network. The sooner detection can
take place, the sooner remediation steps can start, and the amount of damage can be
minimalized.

Users play an important role in the detection of spear phishing if they understand the proper

reporting procedures of the organization. Users should be able to identify the correct
handling and alerting procedure that the users should follow for any suspicious email they
receive.

Using the logs from the organizations firewalls/filters/security devices/workstations,

administrators should always ensure that their whitelisted and blacklisted domains are up to
date. Admins should also check DoD blacklists for known bad domains and add these to their
filters as well. Using these logs and lists, the organization may benefit from other incidents
that have occurred to help in the future
Contain

Utilize application containment products that can be used to prevent the downloading and

propagation of malicious software on the network. If the organization is using some form of
web email, the browser must be containerized. If the organization is using a program for
email (e.g., Microsoft Outlook or Mozilla Thunderbird), then that program should be
containerized for protection. The Application Containment will open the browser or email
program in its own Virtual Machine and isolate it from the rest of the system. This allows the
execution of potential malware in a sandboxed environment so the host system is protected.

Implement front and back end email servers when running on site instantiations of mail

services. Having a front-end server allows the organization to have an extra layer of
protection on the network since the front-end mailbox server contains no user data and allows
a firewall to be placed before the back end server. This is also safer and more convenient for
any web accessed email since web traffic is not being allowed directly into the network,
protects from denial-of-service attacks, and authenticates requests before proxying them to
the back end server. [4]

Control where and when an administrator can log on, as well as what they can do when

logged onto a system. This can minimize the damage of a spear phishing attack. Admins
should never be allowed to browse the internet, nor should they be allowed to open any email
program. This will reduce the likelihood of an accidental click or download of a program that
could be malicious. This also will reduce the chances that a successful attacker will gain
4 https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb124804(v=exchg.65).aspx
54 of 56 54 of 56 TLP:WHITE
admin privileges immediately when they gain access to the system. Organizations can
accomplish this restriction a number of ways, including application whitelisting, VLAN
separation, dedicated administrator boxes, etc.

Ensure that standard user accounts are not a part of the local administrators group. The local

administrator account should also be denied network access and all built in local
administrator accounts should have a unique password value. It is a common tactic to look
for local administrator credentials as a method of expanding access across the network.
Making these values unique for each machine and denying that account network access
removes the attacker’s capability to easily expand access using the same credentials [5] .
Respond

If a phishing email is discovered or suspected, the organization needs to start their normal

investigation procedures. It may be as simple as deleting that email and updating the email
filter to prevent this address/domain from sending to the organization again, but it could also
trigger a normal incident response. If the email contained a link that was clicked, an
attachment that was downloaded, or a program that was executed, the organization may have
to remove any malicious content, discover the extent of the possible spread, detail any
exfiltration of data, or even remove the affected machine(s) or rebuild them.

Reset user credentials and all credentials associated with all compromised boxes. This should

include services accounts and machine accounts as well as the supporting Kerberos tickets.

Monitor all accounts associated with the spear-phishing event. User accounts who are

suspected to have been the victim of a successful phishing campaign should be forensically
monitored for abnormal behaviors including unusual connections to non-standard resources,
attempts to elevate privileges, enumeration behaviors on the local host machine as well as
remote systems, and attempts to execute odd programs or applications.
5 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36036
55 of 56 55 of 56 TLP:WHITE