Detection, Mitigation, and Remediation
Page 33
The below sections outline information and detection capabilities that can assist with identification of activity or tools
associated with Shell_Crew. Additionally, the RSA IR Team has included a digital appendix along with this report that
contains content that can be integrated into Security Analytics, the Enterprise Compromise Assessment Tool (ECAT), or
other security tools for rapid detection and visibility of indicators associated with Shell_Crew within an enterprise
environment.
1. General Forensic Footprints
- On multiple cases Shell_Crew has been seen breaching a network by exploiting vulnerable applications on

external facing servers. Web server logs, if available, can reveal the intrusion vector.
- Shell_Crew has a preference for storing files in the C:\Recycler folder, or in other standard folders one level

deep from the root, such as the C:\Dell, c:\i386, or C:\Reboot folders. Sometimes tools or Trojans have also
been found at the root of the C: drive.
- In addition to connecting to remote systems, copying files, and scheduling jobs to execute them, Shell_Crew

has a preference for lateral movement using RDP. Additionally, they’ve used the Sysinternals tool psexec.exe
to execute a file remotely, sometimes automated via a VBS script.
- Performing forensic analysis on a compromised system’s registry hive (focusing on the Application

Compatibility Cache) can yield numerous artifacts related to Shell_Crew’s activity.
- Using a tool like ECAT, metadata about malicious files and code can be rapidly located throughout an

enterprise allowing responders to focus on relevant systems. Host based signatures can be used in conjunction
with this methodology to allow for improved efficiency. The Yara signatures listed below are currently used by
the RSA IR Team to locate some malicious files specific to this group. A tool like ECAT can utilize these
signatures to scan memory of systems across a network.
- If the adversary registers any Dlls with IIS, these should be unregistered when they are removed from the

compromised system. Similarly any altered files, like System.web.dll, should be deleted and replaced with a
clean copy of the original Microsoft file.
- Data theft by Shell_Crew typically involves use of the WinRAR utility using encrypted and password protected

rar files. Here are some password seen used by Shell_Crew:
       ```
     www.google.com

```
       ```
     www.google.com!123

```
       ```
     fuckalnt76yiuudg

```
2. Security Analytics Integration
Parsers
While standard network signatures will detect some of the Trojans and tools used by Shell_Crew, the Trojan.Derusbi
samples detailed in this report were designed to avoid detection by employing a proprietary handshake derived from
pseudorandom values dynamically calculated at runtime. The digital appendix provided with this report contains several
Security Analytics parsers that can assist in the detection of these Trojan.Derusbi handshakes and additional variants
related to these samples. Once enabled, these parsers will generate meta entitled “derusbiserver_handshake” or
“derusbi_variant” in the Risk.Warning category within Security Analytics.
RSA Emerging Threat Profile: Shell_Crew
RSA Incident Response
Feeds
Page 34
Also included within the digital appendix are feeds that can be imported into Security Analytics for detection of potential
Shell_Crew activity. These feeds will alert users if there are any machines on the network communicating with malicious IP
Addresses or URLs linked to Shell_Crew identified domains or IP’s within this report. Once enabled, these feeds will
generate meta entitled “derusbi_domain_sep201”3 or “derusbi_ip_sep2013” in the Risk.Warning category within Security
Analytics.
3. ECAT Integration
The hashes that are referenced in the Malicious Files and Tools section of this report are also available in the digital
appendix. The format of the files in the digital appendix can be imported directly into ECAT to begin looking for the hashes
across systems within the environment.
By default, ECAT is also able to detect some of the malicious behavior that is exhibited by the samples detailed in this
report. The below examples are provided to demonstrate how potential Shell_Crew activity can be identified using
standard analysis capabilities via the ECAT Server.
Figure 45 is a screenshot where ECAT detected a suspicious outbound connection. The screen shot depicts the attempted
connections of the Trojan.Derusbi sample that was detailed earlier in this report. With this information, ECAT can be used
to quickly determine if any other systems on the network had executable files that were actively beaconing to the same
location.
Figure 45: ECAT detects a suspicious outbound connection
The same malicious file seen above was also flagged as suspicious by ECAT because it was entrenched in an ‘autorun’
location within the system’s registry. The screen shot in Figure 46 below depicts the alert provided by ECAT.
Figure 46: Alert sent by ECAT
Additionally, the RSA IR Team observed that Shell_Crew will time stomp (alter a files Created Date and Time Stamp) to
hinder forensic analysis. By default, ECAT has the ability to parse a system’s MFT and display both the File Name Attribute
information and Standard Information Attribute for a file. The screen shot below shows an instance where the files had
been time stomped. The files were purportedly created on the compromised systems in 2005, when in actuality they had
been placed on the systems in 2012.
RSA Emerging Threat Profile: Shell_Crew
RSA Incident Response
4. Yara Signatures
Page 35
Figure 47: MFT File Viewer in ECAT
The RSA IR Team uses Yara Signatures like the ones provided in the digital appendix to detect malicious files present on
systems and running in memory. They’re also used to detect new variants that are being tested by adversaries using open
source tools like VirusTotal. The RSA IR Team has observed that Shell_Crew will submit numerous samples of a Trojan
family to VirusTotal in an attempt to determine which AV vendors will detect the malicious files.
Shell_Crew will make small changes to the code and how the binary is compiled until a particular AV vendor does not detect
the sample. Detecting these variants using Yara Signatures allows the RSA IR Team to update and alter signatures, analyze
new variants, and become aware of new C2 nodes before the samples are used against targeted organizations. This
information is then added to existing content in Security Analytics and ECAT. Figure 48 is a graph that depicts where
variants of a sample were submitted numerous times, each time being detected by different AV products.
Figure 48: Malware sample testing
5. Hash Set, IPs, Domains
All hashes, IP Addresses, and domains discussed within this report as associated with Shell_Crew can be found in the
attached Digital Appendix.
RSA Emerging Threat Profile: Shell_Crew
RSA Incident Response