Intruder Command and Control Infrastructure
Analysis of the intruders’ activity prior to, and during, the exfiltration
operation indicates that their command and control architecture relied upon
previously stolen valid user accounts to authenticate to the company’s
internal servers. Once authenticated, they established communications with a
variety of previously compromised computers inside the company’s network. The
operators then tunneled Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) within their existing
communication channels to establish contact with the targeted hosts for purposes
ranging from maintaining basic access to the control of the eventual data
exfiltration. Additional stolen account names and passwords were used as needed
to gain access to otherwise protected resources such as computers, network
shares, folders and files.
Analysis of proxy logs and forensic data revealed that the operators used
dozens of employee accounts on almost 150 occasions to access the
network in the days leading up to the exfiltration.
At times, they used highly privileged administrative accounts and passed
NTLM hashes in lieu of passwords directly to the proxy authentication
mechanism. [105] The use of password hashes, which were harvested directly
from compromised domain controllers, appears designed to defeat any twofactor authentication (T-FA) techniques that may have been in place to
defend against brute-force password cracking tools.
The use of NTLM hashes, which were harvested from domain controllers
using password collection tools, appears designed to defeat any multifactor
authentication techniques that may have been in place to defend against
brute-force password cracking tools.
The adversary also repeatedly enumerated group membership of accounts
in the organization’s primary domain, which assisted them in the identifying
which employee accounts to use when trying to access files restricted to
certain users.
105 Many proxy servers can be configured to require an NTLM challenge/response authentication
before access is granted to the protected resource, such as Internet/WWW/FTP access. If an
attacker is in possession of the authentication hashes, they can use the hash directly, rather than
first “crack” the password, then re-hash it for the authentication service.
62
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation