Recommendations
Social Engineering
The primary way to prevent social engineering attacks, is to raise awareness and doubt messages
received from unknown profiles or email senders. We provide several methods for the detection and
prevention of social engineering attack, specially “dream job” operations:

Avoid receiving and opening documents containing job descriptions: we recommend that the

information about position will provided to you via a link to a professional career portal, rather
than as a document which could potentially be leveraged for infection. We also recommend
cross-referencing the information provided to you with the company’s official website.

Take extra caution when using LinkedIn: we encourage you to thoroughly review the profile of

the person with whom you are in contact, verify that they indeed work for the company they
represent and search for similar profiles with a higher level of credibility. We recommend
receiving job offers only from verified company-affiliated accounts – make sure that the
company listed in the profile is not misspelled (e.g. ‘The Boeing Company’ instead of the
correct spelling – ‘Boeing’).

Refrain from providing your personal information – phone number and email address in

particular – prior to the verification of the person which reached out to you.

Malicious documents – when opening the malicious file sent by Lazarus, the victim can only

view the first page and to access the rest of the document, they must enable content, enable
macro, or install a PDF reader. When coming across a document with similar features, please
be alarmed and do not enable the content.

Self-Expression Level – When receiving a job offer or application, we must expect a standard

level of expression which is in line with the person’s country of origin and position in the
company. In the ‘Dream Job’ operation we noticed that despite the high credibility of the
accounts, the impostors’ level of expression was lower then expected, which indicates that this
is not their native language.
Attack Mitigation

Consider disabling file download from private email accounts to company machines when the

employee is connected to the company network. Additionally, try to avoid access to personal
email accounts on machines connected to the company network. We recommend forbidding
employees to access ‘WhatsApp Web’ as well as any other web-client of instant messaging
application from company machines who can access sensitive resources.

Examine the communication between desktop Office software and external servers to locate

any template injection attack attempts. Additionally, disable automatic file downloads from
external servers.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
41 | P a g e

Install EDR software (Endpoint Detection and Response) and monitor the unloading of LNK

and DLL files from other files on a machine under attack. In addition, monitor the DLL files
stored on the machine to prevent DLL injection attacks. If a suspicious DLL file is found, you
can examine its last modification time – if the update time is recent, it means it had been
replaced. Lastly, monitor files running by the rundll32.exe application.


Disable LNK files is possible, as can reference any original file, folder or application.


Disable macros in all document files.


Do not enable the download and install of any unverified PDF reader from any unknown


website. Furthermore, we recommend forbidding employees from installing .exe files on their
company machines or downloading such files without the approval of an IT expert.

Any file downloaded from a storage service must be downloaded to a designated testing

environment and scanned prior to its transfer to the organizational network.

We recommend using a variety of tools simulating a virtual environment, as many malicious

files cease their activity when such environment is detected on the machine.

Do now allow the download of ISO files.


www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
42 | P a g e