CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS

It’s worth noting that the function names used in the PostScript are transliterated
Chinese words. While “yima” (decode) and “yaoshi” (key) appear appropriate in their
functional context, the word “yinzi” (factor/money) does not. The latter may be
obscure technical slang or be a misuse signifying a potential false flag.

This would not be the first time the Lazarus Group used foreign-language terms to
misdirect attribution efforts; ​BAE researchers discovered​ transliterated Russian terms in
previous Lazarus operations. However, an alternate explanation may point to a Chinese
exploit supplier or the language competency of the developer.
The attack chain occurs in multiple stages with the PostScript deobfuscating a first stage
shellcode that’s been XORed with a hardcoded four-byte key. The shellcode in turn triggers
the GhostScript vulnerability in order to execute an embedded DLL that has also been
XORed. A ​PwnCode.Club​ blogpost details the deobfuscation of the shellcode and loading of
the DLL into memory.
Lazarus malware families (like Hangman (​Intel Card​), Duuzer (​Intel Card​), Volgmer (Intel ​
Card​), SpaSpe (​Intel Card​), etc.) overlap, likely as the result of the developers
cutting-and-splicing an extensive codebase of malicious functionality to generate payloads
as needed. This erratic composition make the Lazarus intrusion malware ​difficult to identify
and group or cluster​, unless they are analyzed at the level of code similarity.
Upon deobfuscating the payloads, we found 32-bit DLLs built in part on the Destover
malware (​Intel Card​) code. Destover has been used in a number of North Korea-attributed
operations: most infamously against ​Sony Pictures Entertainment​ in 2014, the ​Polish
banking attacks​ in January 2017, and the ​first WannaCry victim​ in February 2017.
This campaign relies on multiple payloads fashioned out of the Destover infostealer code
to collect information about the victim system and exfiltrate files. Each payload contains an
embedded 64-bit version of itself. The payloads accompanying the newer cryptocurrency
exchange-themed lure docs compiled a month after the Korean Day payload further
obfuscate their functionality by resolving imports at runtime.
This type of obfuscation is common in the Lazarus Hangman malware family. They also rely
entirely on IPs (rather than domains) for their command-and-control infrastructure, a tactic
likely borne of the use of hacked servers for infrastructure.
Outlook
This late 2017 campaign is a continuation of North Korea’s interest in cryptocurrency, which
we now know encompasses a broad range of activities including mining, ransomware, and
Recorded Future​ ​ |​ ​ www.recordedfuture.com​ ​ |​ ​ CTA-2018-0116​ ​ |​ ​ 7