Status as Potential Contractors
We assess with moderate confidence that APT41 is
constituted of contractors tasked by the Chinese state
to conduct espionage operations. Individuals attributed
to the group have previously indicated that they
could be hired and advertised their skills and services.
APT41's use of the same malware in both financial- and
espionage-related operations could support their status
as contractors; state employees are less likely to use such
tools for personal financial gain over multiple years given
the potential for greater scrutiny or punishment.

APT41 cyber crime activity includes the use of

espionage-only malware, indicating two possible
conclusions: either APT41 is operating outside of
state control but still working with other Chinese APT
malware actors, tools, and infrastructure on a part
time or contractual basis, or APT41 is a full-time, state
sponsored APT actor but is also working outside of
state control or direction for supplemental income.
–
Tools used by APT41 in financially motivated
operations include the use of HOMEUNIX and PHOTO,
which are non-public malware used only by other
Chinese espionage actors.
–
A loose time separation between espionage and
cyber crime activities provides some indication that
the group divides its work hours between both types
of operations. For additional details, see Figure 4 and
the previous section "Financially Motivated Activity."
Figure 16:
Ocean injection
tool posted by
Zhang.

Public reports on Chinese hackers highlight that skilled

actors opt to work for private sector entities that have
government contracts because of better pay.

Underground activity dating back to 2009 indicated

that Zhang Xuguang is a hacker for hire. Zhang
advertised on forums that he was available for
professional penetration and hacking services.
–
Zhang listed his online hours from 4:00 p.m. – 6:00
a.m., which are similar to the operational times
observed at gaming targets displayed in Figure 4.

He was also observed sharing an injection tool named

Ocean hysi (海洋hysi注入工具) to demonstrate his skills,
as displayed in Figure 16.
China has previously relied on contractors to bolster state
resources dedicated to cyber espionage activity. Increased
integration between government units and civilian entities,
including contractors and freelancers, is believed to be a
key feature of Chinese cyber policy.

According to indictments unsealed by the U.S.

Department of Justice (USDOJ) in December 2018,
APT10 was operated by contractors working for the
China's Ministry of State Security (MSS).

In a USDOJ indictment unsealed in November 2017,

individual contractors responsible for APT3 were found
to be working for an MSS front company.
34 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION