Confucius connection
Hornbill application icons impersonate various chat and system applications.
Similar to previous Confucius tactics seen with ChatSpy, Hornbill samples often
impersonate chat applications such as Fruit Chat, Cucu Chat and Kako Chat. The related
C2 infrastructure communicates on port 8080, a pattern also seen on the desktop
campaigns carried out by Confucius.14
The Confucius group is well known for impersonating legitimate services to cover their
tracks and confuse its victims. Naming malicious apps similar to legitimate ones may be
an attempt to gain a target’s trust. For example, “kako chat” may have been named due to
its similarity to KakaoTalk.15 However, Kako Chat’s C2 server
(chatk.goldenbirdcoin[.]com) references a defunct cryptocurrency by the same name.16
Cucu Chat may refer to a seemingly benign dating app of the same name that is available
on third-party app stores such as APKPure.17, 18 However, Cucu Chat communicates to
the site http://wangu[.]xyz19 (also on port 8080) and itself appears to be an
https://www.lookout.com/blog/lookout-discovers-novel-confucius-apt-android-spyware-linked-to-india-pakistan-conflict 9/16
8/15/22, 3:43 PM Novel Confucius APT Android Spyware Linked to India-Pakistan Conflict
impersonation of Wangu, an application which advertises itself as a chat app for
Zimbabweans.20 The latest sample of Hornbill titled “Filos” trojanizes the Mesibo21
Android application for legitimate chat functionality.
During our investigation, we noticed that Hornbill C2 infrastructure hosted HTML
resources consistent with a commercial spyware page, but missing its image resources.
C2 servers for Hornbill were found to host HTML content from a commercial spyware.
Additionally, Hornbill carries out data exfiltration via the following unique set of
server paths:
We found that the patterns noted above also existed on another domain samaatv[.]online.
Although Lookout has not directly observed an APK communicating to this domain, we
think one likely exists. samaatv[.]online has resolved to the IP address 91.210.107[.]104
since May 2019, which encompasses the activity of this campaign.
https://www.lookout.com/blog/lookout-discovers-novel-confucius-apt-android-spyware-linked-to-india-pakistan-conflict 10/16
8/15/22, 3:43 PM Novel Confucius APT Android Spyware Linked to India-Pakistan Conflict
In addition to this, we found the SunBird C2 domain pieupdate[.]online resolved to
91.210.107.111 in between February 2019 and July 2019. This is also the timeframe in
which we observed active campaigns by SunBird on that infrastructure.
With the help of public reporting and Lookout’s dataset, we are confident that the
Confucius APT group is actively using the IPs between 91.210.107[.]103-91.210.107[.]112
to host a large portion of their infrastructure, both presently and in the past.
Additional open-source intelligence (OSINT) searches confirmed the above connections.
We found a publicly-accessible 2018 Pakistani government advisory warning of a desktop
malware campaign targeting officers and government staff. The campaign described in it
used phishing emails that impersonated various government agencies to deliver malicious
Microsoft Word exploits. The Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) for this campaign
included domains that were known Confucius infrastructure, leading us to believe the
entire campaign could be attributed to that group.
Official Report from Pakistan’s Federal Bureau of Revenue on Malicious Activity.
A particular point of interest on the advisory IoC list, and crucial in confirming Confucius
connections, was pieupdate[.]online, a C2 server for malicious desktop activity as well as
SunBird mobile malware.
https://www.lookout.com/blog/lookout-discovers-novel-confucius-apt-android-spyware-linked-to-india-pakistan-conflict 11/16
8/15/22, 3:43 PM Novel Confucius APT Android Spyware Linked to India-Pakistan Conflict
Hornbill malware has unique file paths with which to communicate with C2 servers. They also
display a unique Spyware HTML page. Lookout researchers uncovered another domain,
samaatv[.]online, which shares the same unique file paths and Spyware HTML page found on a
Hornbill C2 server, cucuchat[.]com. It is tied to known Confucius infrastructure by resolving to
91.210.107[.]104, in the Confucius IP range.
We are confident SunBird and Hornbill are two tools used by the same actor, perhaps for
different surveillance purposes.
To the best of our knowledge the apps described in this article were never distributed
through Google Play. Users of Lookout security apps are protected from these threats.
Lookout Threat Advisory Services customers have already been notified with additional
intelligence on this and other threats. Take a look at ourThreat Advisory Services page to
learn more.