is bound to seek the same
involve the targeting of vulnerable economic, civil## ian, and governmental services with data destruction, capabilities used against it.
DDoS, and other disruptive attacks. Under current
perceptions of Iranian offensive cyber capabilities, it
is unclear that it would be prepared and able to launch attacks against the power grid or
industrial control systems, such as those conducted against Ukraine. [138] Instead, attacks
would follow the path of least resistance—targeting state and local governments rather
than federal infrastructure, or unprepared sectors that have not been previously targeted
such as transportation and logistics rather than the financial services. Attempts by one
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    51
Iranian to meddle with a local New York dam and other reports about the compromise
of state agencies are demonstrative of the abundance of opportunities for Iran to retaliate
against the United States. [139]
Moreover, although Iran has been described as a rational actor, it is not unitary, as the
overlapping operations and intragovernmental surveillance conducted by the Ministry of
Intelligence and IRGC demonstrate. [140] The motivations, coordination, and authorization
of Iranian state-aligned campaigns may differ from the policy position of other branches
of government, and the use of offensive cyber capabilities is less visible to observers than
the mobilization of troops. Iran’s security apparatus can easily conduct hostilities in cyberspace without the consent or awareness of the rest of the government.
Disruptive activities conducted by Iranian threat actors have decreased overall since the
interim nuclear deal signed in November 2013—known as the Joint Plan of Action
framework. The rhetoric of government and military officials has also evolved over time.
In recent years, particularly under the Rouhani administration, fewer blusterous statements have been made regarding Iran’s cyber operations. [141] While Tehran is less likely to
engage in disruption of American or European infrastructure amid current circumstances, it has engaged in cyber espionage and will continue to do so. The perceived success of
previous campaigns has solidified the principle of offensive cyber operations as an effective means for Iran to continue to conduct espionage and surveillance against regional
adversaries and political opponents.
Yet Iran will continue to be limited by resource constraints for the foreseeable future.
Tehran has rarely appeared able to conduct large-scale exfiltration of classified business
and government data, differing, for example, from Chinese efforts to steal Boeing’s industrial secrets or extensive databases from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. [142]
What’s more, the threshold of difficulty for compromising such targets will increase over
time, and it is unclear whether Iranian capabilities will improve proportionally.
Iran’s massive brain drain, with many of its brightest engineers leaving for political and
economic reasons, imposes further constraints on the development of its cyber capabilities. Iran’s minister of science, research and technology estimated that 150,000 highly
talented people emigrate from Iran every year, a $150 billion annual economic loss. [143]
When Iranian engineers leave for Silicon Valley and Europe, the country’s capacity for
effective offensive and defensive cyber operations goes with them.
In the absence of a historical comparison of Iranian cyber operations, new incidents or
the rise of new groups is often incorrectly perceived as a dramatic improvement to capacity. Despite systemic challenges stemming from bureaucratic dysfunction and underinvestment in cybersecurity, Iran has the potential to foster more effective operations.
52     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
Attempts by the government, universities, and the private sector to create a professional
cybersecurity community, such as hosting Capture the Flag tournaments, will inevitably
result in a deeper talent pool. Observing other nation-state actors provides a set of benchmarks that can be a reliable indicator of improvement or change in posture, including:


coordination of threat actors, more consistent improvement to domestically produced malware, and the development of purpose-built tools that could suggest the
consolidation of capability, specialization of personnel, and even incorporation into
the state;


investments in operational security, ranging from reducing the exposure of information on operators to increased investment in concealment (such as Magic Kitten’s
relay network);


improvements in background research and foreign language abilities within operations, such as more personalization of social engineering attempts, that would reflect
the inclusion of nontechnical support staff; and


execution of operations that include zero-day exploits or target core infrastructure
(for example, compromising network devices, routing protocol hijacks, and telecommunications signaling manipulation), suggesting more investment in resources for
systemic cyber operations.


Despite Iran’s current lack of technical sophistication, simple means can still be effective
at imposing political and economic costs, as evidenced by Russia’s successful compromise
and subsequent leaking of the internal communications of Democratic Party institutions
and operatives before the 2016 U.S. election. Some of the most damaging materials used
in the operation came via a simple breach of a Gmail account, an opportunity available
to anyone. This also reinforces the challenge of discerning intent—what initially appears
as espionage can later turn into an attack. [144]
Given Iran’s dispersed ecosystem of threat actors, deterring Tehran from engaging in
offensive cyber operations is as challenging as other efforts to address security issues
involving the country. Cyber activities are less likely to lead to regional destabilization
than are offline Iranian threats, and historically, Tehran’s disruptive attacks against nonIranian targets have been retaliation during hostilities rather than instigation toward
new conflicts. To maintain credibility at a time when Western surveillance activities
are publicly exposed through leaked confidential documents, effective policy responses
need to differentiate espionage or signaling from sabotage or the infringement of human
rights, actions that violate international norms. It is also important to recognize that
Iranian offensive cyber operations do not require technology transfers or the support of
other states. Members of Iranian threat actors—primarily low-level software developers
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    53
working within a small number of companies—will continue to be tough to identify,
prosecute, and punish.
Naming and shaming may chill participation in state-aligned operations, especially
among talented individuals looking to travel outside the country or study abroad.
However, it is unclear whether those publicly identified with Operation Ababil or other
campaigns have changed their involvement after being outed. Moreover, the loosely
connected and small groups are not cost-effective targets for retaliatory cyber operations.
In the end, Iran maintains a large enough pool of sufficiently capable programmers to
conduct basic campaigns. Therefore, while exposing Iranian cyber operations and operators may degrade and delay the development of better cyber capabilities, it will not fully
deter Iran.