Southeast Asia and Korean Peninsula
In May, we found new samples belonging to the Dtrack family. The first sample, named
Valefor, is an updated version of the Dtrack RAT containing a new feature enabling the
attacker to execute more types of payload. The second sample is a keylogger called Camio
which is an updated version of its keylogger. This new version updates the logged
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ 4/8
11/4/2020 APT trends report Q3 2020 | Securelist
information and its storage mechanism. We observed signs indicating that these malware
programs were tailored for specific victims. At the time of our research our telemetry
revealed victims located in Japan.
We have been tracking LODEINFO, fileless malware used in targeted attacks since last
December. During this time, we observed several versions as the authors were developing the
malware. In May, we detected version v0.3.6 targeting diplomatic organizations located in
Japan. Shortly after that, we detected v0.3.8 as well. Our investigation revealed how the
attackers operate during the lateral movement stage: after obtaining the desired data, the
attackers wipe their traces. Our private report included a technical analysis of the
LODEINFO malware and the attack sequence in the victim’s network, to disclose the actor’s
tactics and methods.
While tracking Transparent Tribe activity, we discovered an interesting tool used by this APT
threat actor: the server component used to manage CrimsonRAT bots. We found different
versions of this software, allowing us to look at the malware from the perspective of the
attackers. It shows that the main purpose of this tool is file stealing, given its functionalities
for exploring the remote file system and collecting files using specific filters. Transparent
Tribe (aka PROJECTM and MYTHIC LEOPARD) is a very prolific APT group that has
increased its activities in recent months. We reported the launch of a new wide-ranging
campaign that uses the CrimsonRAT tool where we were able to set up and analyze the server
component and saw the use of the USBWorm component for the first time; we also found an
Android implant used to target military personnel in India. This discovery also confirms
much of the information already discovered during previous investigations; and it also
confirms that CrimsonRAT is still under active development.
In April, we discovered a new malware strain that we named CRAT, based on the build path
and internal file name. The malware was spread using a weaponized Hangul document as
well as a Trojanized application and strategic web compromise. Since its discovery the fullfeatured backdoor has quickly evolved, diversifying into several components. A downloader
delivers CRAT to profile victims, followed by next-stage orchestrator malware named
SecondCrat: this orchestrator loads various plugins for espionage, including keylogging,
screen capturing and clipboard stealing. During our investigation, we found several weak
connections with ScarCruft and Lazarus: we discovered that several debugging messages
inside the malware have similar patterns to ScarCruft malware, as well as some code patterns
and the naming of the Lazarus C2 infrastructure.
In June, we observed a new set of malicious Android downloaders which, according to our
telemetry, have been actively used in the wild since at least December 2019; and have been
used in a campaign targeting victims almost exclusively in Pakistan. Its authors used the
Kotlin programming language and Firebase messaging system for the downloader, which
mimics Chat Lite, Kashmir News Service and other legitimate regional Android applications.
A report by the National Telecom & Information Technology Security Board (NTISB) from
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ 5/8
11/4/2020 APT trends report Q3 2020 | Securelist
January describes malware sharing the same C2s and spoofing the same legitimate apps.
According to this publication, targets were Pakistani military bodies, and the attackers used
WhatsApp messages, SMS, emails and social media as the initial infection vectors. Our own
telemetry shows that this malware also spreads through Telegram messenger. The analysis of
the initial set of downloaders allowed us to find an additional set of Trojans that we believe
are strongly related, as they use the package name mentioned in the downloaders and focus
on the same targets. These new samples have strong code similarity with artefacts previously
attributed to Origami Elephant.
In mid-July, we observed a Southeast Asian government organization targeted by an
unknown threat actor with a malicious ZIP package containing a multilayered malicious RAR
executable package. In one of the incidents, the package was themed around COVID-19
containment. We believe that the same organization was probably the same target of a
government web server watering-hole, compromised in early July and serving a highly
similar malicious LNK. Much like other campaigns against particular countries that we have
seen in the past, these adversaries are taking a long-term, multipronged approach to
compromising target systems without utilizing zero-day exploits. Notably, another group
(probably OceanLotus) used a similar Telegram delivery technique with its malware implants
against the same government targets within a month or so of the COVID-19-themed
malicious LNK, in addition to its use of Cobalt Strike.
In May 2020, Kaspersky technologies prevented an attack using a malicious script for
Internet Explorer against a South Korean company. Closer analysis revealed that the attack
used a previously unknown full chain that consisted of two zero-day exploits: a Remote Code
Execution exploit for Internet Explorer and an Elevation of Privilege exploit for Windows.
Unlike a previous full chain that we discovered, used in Operation WizardOpium (you can
read more here and here), the new full chain targeted the latest builds of Windows 10, and
our tests demonstrated reliable exploitation of Internet Explorer 11 and Windows 10 build
18363 x64. On June 8, we reported our discoveries to Microsoft, who confirmed the
vulnerabilities. At the time of our report, the security team at Microsoft had already prepared
a patch for vulnerability CVE-2020-0986 that was used in the zero-day Elevation of Privilege
exploit; but before our discovery, the exploitability of this vulnerability had been considered
less likely. The patch for CVE-2020-0986 was released on June 9. Microsoft assigned CVE2020-1380 to a use-after-free vulnerability in JScript and the patch for this was released on
August 11. We are calling this and related attacks Operation PowerFall. Currently, we are
unable to establish a definitive link with any known threat actor, but due to similarities with
previously discovered exploits we believe that DarkHotel may be behind this attack.
On July 22, we came across a suspicious archive file that was uploaded to VirusTotal from an
Italian source. The file seemed to be a triage consisting of malicious scripts, access logs,
malicious document files and several screenshots related to suspicious file detections from
security solutions. After looking into these malicious document files, we identified that they
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ 6/8
11/4/2020 APT trends report Q3 2020 | Securelist
are related to a Lazarus group campaign that we reported in June. This campaign, dubbed
DeathNote, targeted the automobile industry and individuals in the academic field using lure
documents containing aerospace and defense-related job descriptions. We are confident that
these documents are related to a recently reported attack on an Israeli defense company. We
have uncovered webshell scripts, C2 server scripts and malicious documents, identified
several victims connected to the compromised C2 server, as well as uncovering the method
used to access the C2 server.
We have observed an ongoing Sidewinder campaign that started in February, using five
different malware types. The group made changes to its final payloads and continues to
target government, diplomatic and military entities using current themes, such as COVID-19,
in its spear-phishing efforts. While the infection mechanism remains the same as before,
including the group’s exploit of choice (CVE-2017-1182) and use of the DotNetToJScript tool
to deploy the final payloads, we found that the actor also used ZIP archives containing a
Microsoft compiled HTML Help file to download the last-stage payload. In addition to the
existing .NET-based implant, which we call SystemApp, the threat actor added JS
Orchestrator, the Rover/Scout backdoor and modified versions of AsyncRAT, warzoneRAT
to its arsenal.