1.1 Targeted Attacks
All targeted attacks can be divided into two major classes: 
Targeting a specific company or organization        - this type of attack is directed at a specific
organization and the aim of an intruder is unauthorized access to confidential information such
as commercial secrets (as with the Aurora attack). 
Targeting specific software or IT infrastructure         - this type of attack is not directed at a
specific company and its target is the data associated with a certain kind of software, for
example -banking client software or SCADA systems. Such attacks have to be implemented in a
more flexible manner. This class of attacks can do much more damage to a great number of
companies than the attacks of the first class. As this class pre-supposes a long term attack, it is
designed to circumvent protection systems (as with the Stuxnet attack).
The most common vector for the development of targeted external attacks is now considered to be the
exploitation of vulnerabilities in popular client-side applications (browsers, plugins and so on). Attackers
typically use combinations of multiple steps, which allow them to take root on the client-side. In most
cases the first stage of the attack employs social engineering to allow an attacker to lure the victim to a
favorable environment for the implementation of the next attack phase.
www.eset.com
6
Figure 1.1 – Typical Stages of Client-Side Attack
Bypassing the security software installed in certain organizations is a crucial objective for most malware.
There is a separate cybercriminal business sector devoted to providing the means for malicious software
to stay undetected by specific or widely spread antivirus products.
Figure 1.2 – Custom Malware Protector
This kind of service can extend the life of outdated malware, or extend the time new threats stay
undetected. However, the use of such technologies to resist detection by antivirus software can be used
as a heuristic for the detection of previously unknown samples. But the converse case also holds true:
avoiding using any techniques aimed at bypassing antivirus software and making the program resemble
legitimate software more closely can be a way of protecting malware. This is the case with the attack
mechanism used by the Stuxnet worm.
www.eset.com
7
The Stuxnet attack constituted a serious threat to trust in software using legal digital signatures. This
creates a problem for white-listing, where security software is based on the a priori assumption that a
trusted program meets certain conditions and is therefore indeed trustworthy. And what if the program
closely resembles legitimate software and even has digital certificates for installed modules published in
the name of reputable companies? All this suggests that targeted attacks could persist much longer over
time than we previously imagined. Stuxnet was able to stay undetected for a substantial period where
no one saw anything suspicious. The use of a self-launching, 0-day vulnerability in the attack allowed the
rapid distribution of Stuxnet in the targeted region. The choice of this kind of vulnerability is quite
deliberate, because in the absence of information about its existence, use of the exploit will not be
detected. All these facts suggest a well-planned attack which remained unnoticed until long after it was
launched. But it is precisely the existence of such threats that inspires us to look at the new vector and
the possibility of attacks that use it, in order to reduce the impact of future attacks.