Appendix 1: North Korean Government Agencies and Subordinate Groups Conducting Cyber Operations
Government Agencies
l
Reconnaissance General Bureau (RGB). Formed in 2009 during
a restructuring of military and intelligence organizations, the RGB
is the primary agency responsible for intelligence, clandestine, and
terrorist operations. It includes the majority of North Korea’s cyber
units with an estimated 6,800 “trained cyber-warfare specialists.” [58]
Subordinate units include:

Unit 35 (also known as the Central Party Investigative Group),

which is responsible for developing malware, identifying opponents’
vulnerabilities, and conducting technical education and training. [59]

Unit 91, which is responsible for acquiring information and

technology on nuclear development and long-range missiles. It
has conducted cyberattacks against the South Korean Ministry of
Defense and critical national infrastructure targets such as Korea
Hydro and Nuclear Power, which operates nuclear and hydroelec­
tric power plants. [60]

Unit 121 (also known as the Cyber Warfare Guidance Unit), which

is North Korea’s largest cyber unit and has both intelligence-gath­
ering and attack components. [61] It is responsible for infiltrating
computer networks, hacking secret information, and planting
viruses to paralyze enemy networks. [62] It is also responsible for
attacking infrastructure networks in the transportation, tele­
communications, gas, electric and nuclear power, and aviation
sectors [63] and may be responsible for Korea Peoples’ Army jamming
operations [64] and the disabling of South Korean command, control,
and communications structures during an armed conflict. Unit 121
oversees Unit 91; Lab 110, which manages Offices 35, 98, and 414;
Unit 180; 128 Liaison Office; and 413 Liaison Office. [65]
a. Lab 110 conducts cyber intelligence missions and cyberattacks
against computer command systems. It is believed to have been
responsible for the 2009 DDoS attacks against South Korean
SPECIAL REPORT | No. 247 September 2, 2021 | 19
heritage.org
telecommunications targets. The South Korean National Intelli­
gence Service reported that the unit had received orders to “destroy
the South Korean communications networks in an instant.” [66]
b. Unit 180
is responsible for hacking international financial
institutions to gain foreign currency to support the regime’s
nuclear and ballistic missile programs. [67] It has shifted its focus to
targeting cryptocurrency exchanges. [68]
l
General Staff Department of the Korea Peoples’ Army (GSD).
The GSD focuses on the military applications of cyber operations.
Its primary cyber goal is to integrate cyber capabilities into North
Korea’s warfighting strategy. The GSD’s cyber responsibilities are
divided among its:

Operations Bureau, which creates cyber strategy, force planning,

and missions.

Command Automation Bureau, which conducts cyber warfare

operations. Subordinate Units 31, 32, and 56 develop malware
development, military software, and command and control soft­
ware, respectively.

Enemy Collapse Sabotage Bureau, which conducts information

and psychological warfare. [69]
l State Security Department Bureau 225. Bureau 225 produces
anti–South Korea propaganda to be disseminated through covert
networks in China and Japan as well as hundreds of social media sites.
According to South Korea’s National Intelligence Service, Pyongyang
seeks to manipulate online opinion by posting articles on blogs or
sending emails to South Korean journalists. [70] The unit trains agents,
conducts infiltration operations in South Korea, and creates under­
ground political organizations in order to incite disorder. It plays a
more traditional intelligence and psychological operations role rather
than focusing heavily on cyber operations. [71]
l Defense Commission Psychological Operations Department
Unit 204. Unit 204 engages in cyber-psychological warfare, espionage,
and cyberattacks against South Korea and Western targets. [72]
20 NORTH KOREAN CYBERATTACKS:
A DANGEROUS AND EVOLVING THREAT
North Korean–Affiliated Hacker Groups
l Lazarus is the largest and most prevalent of North Korea’s hacker
groups. It was created in 2007 and is subordinate to Lab 110 of Bureau
121 of the RGB. It has targeted the aerospace, chemical, electronic,
entertainment, financial, government, health care, infrastructure,
manufacturing, media, military, publishing, and shipping sectors. It
also has targeted North Korean human rights organizations in South
Korea and Japan. [73] Lazarus was responsible for many of North Korea’s
most audacious cyberattacks, including attacks against South Korean
banks in 2013, Sony Pictures Entertainment in 2014, and the Wanna­
Cry ransomware attack in 2017.
l Kimsuky was created in 2012 with a global intelligence-gathering
mission. The organization has extensively targeted U.S., South Korean,
and Japanese individuals, think tanks, government agencies, and other
organizations focused on Korean security issues, nuclear policy, and
sanctions. Kimsuky seeks access to computers to gain information
through social engineering tactics such as phishing, credential and
password harvesting, and watering hole attacks. [74]
l
Reaper (APT38) targets financial institutions and interbank finan­
cial systems to obtain money for the regime. Since 2015, APT38 has
been linked to attempts to steal hundreds of millions of dollars from
financial institutions, including the Vietnam TP Bank (2015); Bangla­
desh Bank (2016); Far Eastern International Bank (2017); Bancomext
(2018); and Banco de Chile (2018). [75]
l Andariel has conducted cyber espionage and cybercrimes against
foreign businesses, defense industries, financial institutions, and gov­
ernment agencies since 2015. It has been linked to hacks into ATMs to
withdraw cash and steal customer information that it later sells on the
black market. Andariel also has developed malware to hack into online
poker and gambling sites. [76]
l Bluenoroff conducts cyber heists to generate revenue and enable
the regime to evade sanctions. The group was first noticed in 2014 as
part of Pyongyang’s new emphasis on financial targets. Bluenoroff
has attempted to steal over $1.1 billion from financial institutions and
cryptocurrency exchanges in Bangladesh, India, Mexico, Pakistan,
SPECIAL REPORT | No. 247 September 2, 2021 | 21
heritage.org
Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, Turkey, Chile, and Vietnam. [77] In
conjunction with the Lazarus group, Bluenoroff stole $81 million from
the Central Bank of Bangladesh’s New York Federal Reserve account
using stolen SWIFT credentials. An attempt by the two groups to steal
an additional $851 million was thwarted by an alert bank officer who
noticed a typographical error.
l Chollima
consists of “four groups, differing in the objectives and
methods of attacks:”

Labyrinth Chollima, which “focuses on countering intelli­

gence services;”


Ricochet Chollima, which steals user data;


Silent Chollima, which “acts against the media and government


agencies, primarily in South Korea;” and

Stardust Chollima, which “specializes in ‘commercial attacks.’” [78]

22 NORTH KOREAN CYBERATTACKS:
A DANGEROUS AND EVOLVING THREAT