COMMERCIAL TARGETS
Unlike China, Iran has limited use for commercial espionage given its lack of an industrial production sector that could utilize stolen intellectual property. Iran’s industrial
espionage activities serve to boost its commodities industries and military technological
prowess rather than its domestic manufacturing sector. Nor has Iran attempted to offset
the impact of economic sanctions through large-scale financial crime, as North Korea appears to do. [99] Based on public reports and directly observed campaigns, the commercial
entities targeted by Iranian threat actors typically fall into four categories:


Aerospace and civil aviation


Defense industrial base and security sector


Natural resources and extractive industries


Telecommunications firms
Evidence of Iran’s interest in the theft of defense secrets comes from several cybersecurity
reports, observed incidents, and U.S. indictments. Nima Golestaneh, an Iranian national
extradited to the United States from Turkey, pleaded guilty to supporting the October
2012 hack of Vermont-based defense company Arrow Tech Associates in an operation to
acquire copies of their weapon system simulations to sell the software to Iranian government and military entities. [100] This would prove to be a harbinger of later efforts.
In early 2014, in parallel to targeting Iranian women’s development programs and others,
one threat actor (Flying Kitten) impersonated a website for an aerospace systems conference to spread malware to defense contractors, a tactic still used against the industry
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    37
today. Another Iranian threat actor over the course of 2015 to 2016 repeatedly created
phony corporate websites for Oshkosh Corporation, an American defense company, to
capture credentials from its private internal business network, and continued to target
aviation companies, including jet engine manufacturers and satellite companies. Reports
of attempts of military espionage by Iranian threat actors are extremely common and
include a broad set of industries, most notably aerospace technologies.
Yet these operations appear to have had limited success. Given their involvement in the
defense industry, coupled with related concerns about Chinese industrial espionage,
companies like Oshkosh prioritized information security in ways that NGOs have not.
Consequently, while there is indication that employees are commonly targeted, even
compromised, reports of the theft of highly sensitive defense secrets by Iran are rare.
The targeting of defense companies is also motivated by regional politics rather than
solely theft of military technologies. Several defense industry companies targeted by Iranian threat actors, including Oshkosh Corporation, are substantially involved in providing security and military assistance to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states. Many of the
American companies—including Oshkosh Corporation—that were designated by the
Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in March 2017 under retaliatory human rights sanctions for their involvement with the Israeli military have also been targeted by Iranian
cyber operations. [101]
As in other areas, it is difficult to derive intent purely from who was targeted or impersonated. In certain cases, it appears Iranian threat actors have compromised Middle
East–based information technology consultants in pursuit of the governments or businesses who are their clients. These operations often target company employees based in
the Middle East, potentially to acquire information on the military capabilities of rivals
or access to other targets (such as supply-chain attacks). One more recent campaign
masquerading as Boeing and Northrop Grumman appeared focused on Saudi Arabia’s
military and commercial aviation sectors. [102]
Similarly, Iran’s targeting of telecommunications firms, banks, and civil aviation companies could provide them a foothold in critical infrastructure, one that could potentially
cause substantial economic harm and even endanger lives. Thus far, however, Tehran appears to have used such targeting for reconnaissance purposes, mirroring other countries’
cyber activities. [103] However, there are legitimate reasons to be concerned that Tehran’s
intention in targeting critical infrastructure is to hold social and economic assets in adversarial countries at risk in the event it needs to escalate or retaliate during conflict.
38     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
CHAPTER FOUR