4     Conclusion
With an automated test platform Cobalt Strike, the attack penetration can penetrate firewall,
the approach the attackers used to control targeted host is covert and undetectable; what’s
12/17
more, it can attack various platforms, such as Windows, Linux, Mac etc.; it’s formidable
adversary to Trusted Computing, Cloud Detection, Sandbox Detection and so on.
According to the traces in the past, we believe that the threat has been active for 5 years;
unfortunately, there isn’t any powerful detection production and methods to defeat the
malicious attack till now.
The reason why the CERT Analysis Team of ANTIY classified APT-TOCS into APT
incidents is that it’s a kind of targeted attack (one of the features of APT attack), it has anti
detection functions and also it can conceal itself. Compared with APT incidents in the past,
the APT attack in this case doesn’t cost too much, and the attackers aren’t responsible for
coding. With the application of commercial attack platform, the attackers saved the cost of
an attack, also the vulnerability built joint function provided by relevant attack platform
make the attackers easy to do injection. As a result, nations and organizations which
without its own elite hacker groups and abundant capital can also launch some kind of APT
attack via the attack pattern mentioned in this case. Meanwhile, it’s more difficult for us to
tracing when facing such modeled attack.
One of the leaders in Information Security area-Bruce Schiner said, “when big events on
information security happened, people tend to treat it as an example of cyber warfare. It’s
ridiculous. From my point of view, what’s happening and going to happen is: more and
more tactics in physical warfare are applied to cyber warfare. It’s important to note that,
attack capabilities can be widely distributed if attackers take full advantages of certain
technology, especially computer technology can make attack more powerful and
automated.” Obviously, highly automated commercial platform realized a high speed of
spread of this attack capability (exceeded our anticipation).
We have to remind all relevant parties that we are confronting with the risk of large scale
diffusion of network armaments which is led by the low cost of the attack capability. The
commercial penetration attack detecting platform has two sides, on one hand, it can check
the network environment of systems effectively, on the other hand, for nations,
organizations and industries which has limited budget, it costs too much. Given the
situation, all related parties should conduct more communication with each other,
additionally, there is no doubt that both offensive party and defensive party are supported
by superpowers, these superpowers should prevent the attack technique from widely
distributing.
The incident mentioned there has no difference with other cases we detected in the past, it
shows that, on the way to realize national informatizaion, we must fight against serious
security challenges as we confronting now; it’s also a good opportunity for our Chinese
people and enterprises to demonstrate our faith and the efforts we made to conquer the
challenge.