Hong Kong Protests
Between September 21, 2019 and March 20, 2020, Recorded Future
observed approximately 230,000 references to Hong Kong protests,
an 11.9% drop from the approximately 261,000 references observed
in the prior six months (March 21 to September 20, 2019). However,
it is worth noting that the first mentions appeared in June 2019, when
the protests started. Of the 228,000 references, 692 mentions were
related to “disinformation,” “fake news,” or “influence operations.”
Much of the reporting was focused on influence operations — some
attributed to the Chinese government — carried out on social media
(such as Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube), which Recorded Future
assesses will continue to be a common TTP employed by Chinese
state-sponsored groups.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 13
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
We highlight two new TTPs observed in the past six months that
have been employed by Chinese state-backed groups or groups
that are supportive of the state: first, the crowd-sourced doxxing
of anti-government protesters, and second, social media “rallies” to
support Hong Kong police and authorities, and the Chinese state.
Recorded Future assesses that these are likely to become regularly
deployed tools in Chinese influence operations due to the general
rise of Chinese grassroot patriotism and national pride that are the
driving forces behind these campaigns.
Crowd-Sourced Doxxing of Protestors
Since August 2019, Recorded Future has observed multiple websites
and Telegram channels or groups created for the purpose of “doxxing”
anti-government protesters, publicly revealing their PII and possibly
exposing them to cyberbullying or other malicious targeting. These
websites collect submissions of doxxing information via an official
contact email and publish doxxed profiles in well-designed, uniform
templates without revealing their sources. In this report, we focus
on two of the biggest doxxing websites: HKLeaks and Hong Kong
Mob.
|HKLeaks|Col2|
|---|---|
|Original Domain|hkleaks[.]org(Registered on August 15, 2019)|
|Active Domain(s)|hkleaks[.]pk, hkleaks[.]ml|
|Contact Email(s)|hkleaks@yandex.com|
|Related Telegram Accounts5|@hkleaks, @hongkong_nes|
HKLeaks is the most prominent and widely reported doxxing site
targeting anti-government protesters. It has been referenced by
Chinese state media and foreign news outlets alike. The site has
used at least 12 known top-level domains (full list in Appendix A)
since its creation, likely to avoid takedown requests by Hong Kong
authorities, as it is illegal to disclose certain personal details of an
individual without their consent.
5 Telegram accounts that are possibly managed by the same actors or majorly promote
content from the specific doxxing site.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 14
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
HKLeaks includes pages that “debunk (anti-government) rumors,”
list out entities branded as “accomplices of protesters” (including
churches, restaurants, corporations, and schools), and break down
doxxed targets into seven different categories. Doxxed targets
include eight teachers that are seen as supporters of the protests
(such as the principal of the Chinese University of Hong Kong), 61
journalists and editors of Apple Daily (one of Hong Kong’s biggest
newspapers), 23 individuals who allegedly doxxed the Hong Kong
police, numerous pro-democracy lawmakers and opinion leaders,
and more than 900 protesters. A doxxed profile would include a
headshot and information such as the individual’s full name, current
occupation, date of birth, telephone numbers, Facebook accounts,
address, and a brief description of their “misdeeds.”
According to data from social media monitoring platform
CrowdTangle, as of November 2019, more than two million people
follow Facebook pages that have shared HKLeaks’s posts. HKLeaks is
also promoted by Twitter accounts, Telegram groups and channels,
and Weibo accounts.
The doxxing has real-life consequences for some of the victims — a
female reporter from Apple Daily, for instance, received hundreds
of threatening calls. Anecdotal evidence presented by some of the
victims allege that authorities from mainland China may be involved.
A victim told AFP that he gave a “fake address I’ve never given to
anyone” to Chinese police while he was questioned at the border
when returning to Hong Kong from a business trip in mainland
China in August, which showed up as his address on HKLeaks.
Another victim told Apple Daily that his photo on the website was
the photo he used on his China travel card.
While we are unable to attribute the creation and management
of the site to an individual or group of individuals, we assess that
HKLeaks is almost certainly the result of a highly coordinated effort
and heavy resource investment.
- The continuous curation of doxxing information and

production of customized, professional-quality graphics over a
period of months show a sustained resource investment.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 15
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
- The constant shift of domains, the use of bulletproof hosting,

and the use of anonymous registration indicate an intent to
evade takedown and prosecution. A prominent message on
the top of the homepage reads, “We declare that this site will
never shut down!”
- HKLeaks has been promoted on social media by accounts

similar to those taken down by platforms for coordinated
inauthentic behavior linked to state-backed actors. Some
social media accounts were created shortly before the website
was created in August 2019; others were old, idle accounts
that were revived around the same time.
Screenshot of HKLeaks’s homepage. (Source: HKLeaks)
|Hong Kong Mob|Col2|
|---|---|
|Original Domain|hongkongmob[.]com|
|Active Domain(s)|No longer active|
|Contact Email(s)|hongkongmob@yandex[.]com, hongkongmob@protonmail[.]com,hongkongmob@163[.]com|
|Related Telegram Accounts|@hongkongmob, @hongkongmobchannel, @Tearmask|
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 16
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Hong Kong Mob is a doxxing site that provides cash rewards to
people who provide either new doxxing targets or information on
existing targets. Individuals can submit new doxxing targets via
the official contact email address, and can provide information of
existing targets through an online form on the website.
Information requested includes Facebook and other social media
accounts, and the misdeeds of the target. The first person to
provide “useful information” will receive the reward; if multiple
people provide useful information, the cash reward would be split
among the individuals. The website accepts donations for its cash
reward fund.
While Hong Kong Mob is no longer active, the most recent capture
from WayBack Machine on January 14, 2020 shows a banner on the
homepage stating that 62 protesters have been doxxed, 46 doxxing
targets are outstanding, and 78,019 HKD (approximately $10,048
USD) worth of cash rewards have been awarded.
Hong Kong Mob also includes a page that lists out links to similar
pro-Hong Kong government and anti-protester websites, Telegram
groups and channels, and Facebook groups and pages.
According to its “About Us” page, the website was created by two
groups: “Global Volunteers Against Hong Kong’s Pro-Independence
Mob” (全球反港獨暴徒志願者聯盟), and “Volunteers to Protect Hong
Kong” (守護香港志願者聯盟). Recorded Future is unable to attribute
these two groups, nor are we able to confirm that they are indeed
two separate groups. However, we assess that the actors behind
Hong Kong Mobs are likely not Hong Kong natives, but are attempting
to pass off as such. Although most of the website is written in
traditional Chinese characters (rather than the simplified Chinese
characters used by mainland Chinese) and the content mirrors
written and spoken Cantonese (which uses distinct characters and
wording that is different from the written Chinese of Taiwan and
mainland China), some terms and wording used on the website are
not commonly used by Hong Kong-born Cantonese speakers.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 17
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Screenshot of Hong Kong Mob. (Source: Wayback Machine)
Possible Connections Between Doxxing Websites
Recorded Future has observed similarities between HKLeaks and
Hong Kong Mob:
• Same Hosting Infrastructure : Both sites were hosted by a
Russian bulletproof host service, DDoS-GUARD. Initial domains
were hosted on the same IP address block, with hkleaks[.]org
hosted on 185.178.208[.]149 and hongkongmob[.]com hosted
on 185.178.208[.]143.
• Same Domain for Contact Email : Both contact emails are
hosted by Russian email service provider Yandex.
While these similarities are not sufficient evidence to support a
connection between these two websites, Recorded Future notes that
these similarities are not shared with other doxxing websites such
as jophk[.]com. We assess that the use of Russian hosting services
and email hosts by the websites’ creators are likely to maintain
anonymity and evade takedown or data disclosure requests from
the Hong Kong government or other relevant jurisdictions rather
than attempting to pose as Russian actors.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 18
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
It is also worth noting that many of these doxxing websites and social
media groups and channels also promote similar anti-protester,
or doxxing, websites and social media channels as resources.
We assess that this is due to the political motivation behind the
creation of these websites and groups, which eliminates the sense
of competition between different websites for online traffic and
exposure, as they are all supporting the same cause.
@hkleaks Telegram and Hong Kong Mob link to similar channels and websites. (Source: Telegram, WayBack
Machine)
Interactions With State Media
On September 18, 2019, the official Weibo account of CCTV, China’s
state-owned TV network, published a video showcasing the HKLeaks
website, and urged followers to “act together” and “tear off the masks
of the rioters.” The post was subsequently shared by the Weibo
accounts of local Chinese police, local media outlets, branches of
Chinese Communist Youth League, and others. While this does not
establish a direct connection between doxxing websites such as
HKLeaks and the Chinese state, we believe this endorsement by
state organizations has, at the very least, supported and encouraged
these anti-protester doxxing efforts.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 19
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Social Media ‘Rallies’ to Support Hong Kong Police and
Chinese Authorities
China has a history of internet patriotism. The past several years
have yielded several examples of Chinese netizens rallying to
use VPNs to circumvent the Great Chinese Firewall and leave
angry comments on social media accounts of public figures
and brands that have “wronged” China and “hurt the feelings of
Chinese people.” Several online rallies have been observed since
the summer of 2019, targeting Hong Kong pro-democracy social
media pages and accounts. These rallies differ from usual internet
activism from individual Chinese online “patriots,” as they involve
the congregations of individuals which assume a common identity
(other than just patriotism) and often have a fixed start date and
time when participants engage in certain online behavior together.
Rather than one-off actions of individuals, participation in these
rallies is based on and can cultivate a sense of community, rather
similar to attending events in the offline world. We highlight two
netizen groups that have been most active: “Diba” (帝吧) and
“Fangirls” (饭圈女孩).
Diba ‘Expeditions’
One of the more coordinated Chinese netizen groups is Diba, a
forum with more than 30 million followers on China’s largest search
engine Baidu, which has organized at least 10 online “expeditions,”
or “rallies,” since 2005. One of Diba’s recent expeditions was in 2016
after the election of Taiwanese president Tsai Ing-wen. The group
called upon Chinese netizens to flood prominent Taiwan-related
Facebook pages with anti-Taiwan independence comments to
“show the patriotism of the Chinese youth.” Diba users also rallied
to flood the Facebook pages of the Swedish national broadcaster
SVT and Sweden’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs after SVT ran a satirical
sketch about Chinese tourists in 2018.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 20
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
On July 22, 2019, Diba organized its first online rally targeting the
Hong Kong protests with the objective to “Support Hong Kong
police, maintain rule of law, denounce violence and chaos, and
sustain ‘one country two systems’.” Netizens flooded two prodemocracy Facebook pages with comments supporting the Hong
Kong police and “One China.” Another rally was planned for the next
evening to show support for a pro-China lawmaker in Hong Kong,
but was abruptly called off due to “Diba management receiving
phone calls from relevant authorities,” as outlined in a post on the
Diba official Weibo account. No concrete explanations were given
but Diba members speculated that the Chinese government may
have intervened.
Fangirl ‘Rallies’
A new group of Chinese netizens that has sprung out of the Hong
Kong protests is called the “fangirls.” In China, “fangirls” used to be
a slightly demeaning reference to fan groups of celebrities, who
have a reputation of pulling crazy stunts to support their “idols”
(爱豆) and often get into fierce online arguments with fans of other
celebrities. The demographic profile of these fan groups are usually
young women born after 1990 (the so-called “post-’90s” generation).
As the entertainment industry in China became more competitive,
these fan groups have professionalized online rallying and showing
support for their celebrities, as these overt expressions of support
serve as an indicator for how popular the celebrities are and boosts
their careers. On August 14, 2019, numerous groups of fangirls
rallied together to show support for a new idol, “Brother China”
(阿中哥哥/阿中), an imaginary personification of the Chinese state.
According to local news reports, fangirls had become upset that their
beloved celebrities were being attacked online and boycotted by
Hong Kong anti-government protesters for speaking out in support
of the Hong Kong police and the Chinese state. As a result, fan
groups that usually supported different celebrities temporarily put
aside their differences and supported the Chinese state. According
to Southern Metropolis Daily, a local newspaper, at least 12 different
fan groups were created to support the personified “Brother China.”
Some fan groups had more than 200 people. Within two days, the
topic “We all have an idol called Brother China” (我们都有一个爱豆名
字叫阿中) was trending on Weibo, and had 790 million views.
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 21
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
The groups were well organized, and had specific teams for image
creation, copywriting, translating, and even technical support. They
also provided tools and manuals, teaching newcomers how to
register for Instagram and Facebook accounts and how to use VPNs.
The fangirls not only flooded the social media accounts of pro-China
celebrities and public figures with supporting comments, they also
flooded Instagram hashtags with pro-China images and memes.
Through comments and images, the fangirls created personas for
the Chinese state as a male celebrity that “has been active for 5,000
years,” “has 1.4 billion fans,” “was born into power and influence,”
but “was bullied by others and lost his status” and had “a son and
a daughter that were kidnapped and now refuse to recognize him
as their father.” These fictional personas of Brother China mirror
the common CCP propaganda narratives, including concepts such
as the “century of humiliation” and fundamental lore about the
Chinese nation.
Instagram comments in support of China (left) and Instagram hashtag #blackcop taken over by pro-China images
(right). (Source: Beijing Daily)
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 22
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
Interactions Between Diba and Fangirls
On August 16, 2019, Diba launched its own “Expedition of Patriotic
Youths” to support the fangirls’ rally. It also promoted the QQ
messaging group chat accounts of 17 fangirl groups so that Diba
users could join in the ongoing efforts. Diba’s call for online
patriotism amplified the exposure of the fangirls’ online rally, and
was shared by many Weibo opinion leaders, including Hong Kong
pro-China lawmaker Junius Ho.
Diba’s poster for “Expedition of Patriotic Youths” with the captions “Support HK Police, Protect our motherland–
CHINA” (left), and real-time updates of the campaign posted on Diba’s official Weibo account (right). (Source: Beijing
Daily)
Interactions With the Chinese State
State media and state-affiliated organizations played an important
role in instigating, encouraging, and promoting the online rallies of
fangirls and Diba.
- The August 14 fangirl rally was in part inspired by a Weibo

post from CCTV’s official account with the title “[Hong Kong
Celebrity] Jackson Wang targeted by pro-democracy forces
for being patriotic and protecting [the Chinese] flag.” The
post warned pro-democracy protesters to “immediately stop
unlawful, violent behavior, or face dire consequences.”
Recorded Future [®] | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-CH-2020-0429 | 23
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS | CHINA
- The fangirl rally was encouraged and promoted by the official

Weibo accounts of People’s Daily, Communist Youth League,
and the Global Times. It was also highlighted on national
television, as a segment of CCTV news.
- The August 17 Diba expedition was encouraged and promoted

by the official Weibo account of the Communist Youth League.
Recorded Future assesses that the online netizen groups Diba and
fangirls are likely grassroot movements that are initiated from
the bottom up rather than being directed by the Chinese state.
However, it is likely that the Chinese government will start leveraging
the existing patriotism and capabilities of these online grassroot
groups to promote and defend state interests abroad through
explicit direction (such as the phone calls to Diba management
by authorities) and implicit nudging (such as encouraging fangirls
rallies).