1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
ESET Research has analyzed Kobalos, previously unknown and complex multiplatform malware
targeting Linux, FreeBSD and Solaris systems. Given that the victims of this threat are mostly high-profile
organizations, it seems almost certain this malware is deployed against chosen targets rather than
opportunistically. When deployed, this malware gives access to the file system of the compromised host
and enables access to a remote terminal, giving the attackers the ability to run arbitrary commands.
The network capabilities of Kobalos make this malware quite distinctive. It supports acting both as a passive
implant and as a bot actively connecting to its C&C server. Interestingly, these C&C servers are themselves
compromised with Kobalos; the code for running such servers is present in all Kobalos samples.
By performing an internet-wide scan, ESET Research was able to identify and notify victims of this threat.
It is unclear how old this malware is, but the first known activity was confirmed by a victim
who was compromised in late 2019. The group operating Kobalos remained active throughout 2020.
The Linux threat landscape continues to evolve, and at times, malware authors invest a considerable
amount of resources into their tradecraft. Kobalos is one of these cases.
1.1 Key findings
   - Kobalos is a multiplatform backdoor that works on Linux, FreeBSD and Solaris. There are also artifacts

indicating that variants of this malware may exist for AIX and even Windows.
   - The targets of Kobalos are high profile and include high-performance computers, servers in academia,

an endpoint security vendor, and a large internet service provider. It was deployed in servers located
in Europe, North America, and Asia.
   - Kobalos uses a complex obfuscation mechanism that makes its analysis challenging.


   - Any Kobalos-compromised server can be turned into a C&C server for other hosts compromised

by Kobalos. The code is embedded into the malware and can be activated by the operator at any time.
   - Most hosts compromised by Kobalos that we investigated also had an OpenSSH credential stealer

installed. This may explain how Kobalos propagates.
   - The intent of the authors of this malware is still unknown. We have not found any clues to indicate

whether they steal confidential information, pursue monetary gain, or are after something else.
No other malware was found on compromised systems except the SSH credential stealer.
5 A wild Kobalos appears Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs TLP: WHITE