Operation
When the malware is loaded by rundll32.exe and the current directory isn’t %TEMP%, the malware starts
with gathering the same system information as described in the “Installation” section to decrypt
configuration information. As with the previous version of MiniDuke, it checks for the presence of the
following processes in the system:
If any of these are found in the system the configuration information will be decrypted incorrectly, i.e . the
malware will run on the system without any communication to C&C servers. If the configuration data is
decrypted correctly, MiniDuke retrieves the Twitter page of @FloydLSchwartz in search of URLs by
which to reach C&C server. It looks for the tag “X)))” on the page (MiniDuke was searching for “uri!” in
previous samples) and if the tag is found it decrypts a URL from the data that follows it. The Twitter
account @FloydLSchwartz does exist but has only retweets and no strings with the special tag.
As the next step, MiniDuke gathers the following information from the infected systems:
computer name and user domain name
country code of the infected host IP address obtained from http://www.geoiptool.com
OS version information
domain controller name, user name, groups a user account belongs to
a list of AV products installed onto the system
Internet proxy configuration
version of MiniDuke
This information is then sent to the C&C server along with the request to download a payload. The final
URL used to communicate with the C&C server looks like this: /create.php?=
 Those tokens are derived as follows:
url_start – the URL retrieved from the twitter account
rnd_param – randomly generated of lower case alphabet characters parameter name in the query
string of the URL
system_info – base64 encoded and encrypted system information
An example of such a URL is given below:
The payload is downloaded in the file named “fdbywu” using the urlmon!URLDownloadToFileA API:
The downloaded payload is a fake GIF8 file containing encrypted executable. The malware processes the
downloaded file in the same way as previous samples of MiniDuke: it verifies the integrity of the file using
RSA-2048, then decrypts it, stores in a file and finally executes it. The RSA-2048 public key to verify
integrity of the executable inside the GIF file is the same as in the previous version of MiniDuke.