Overcoming network segmentation
```
In the course of this research, we identified another highly interesting technique
used by the attackers for lateral movement and exfiltration of stolen data. The
enterprise network under attack was divided into two segments: corporate (a
network on which computers had internet access) and restricted (a network on
which computers hosted sensitive data and had no internet access). According
to corporate policies, no transfer of information was allowed between these two
segments. In other words, the two segments were meant to be completely
separated.
Initially, the attackers were able to get access to systems with internet access
and spent a long time distributing malware between machines in the network’s
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
11
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
corporate segment. Among the compromised machines were those used by the
administrators of the enterprise’s IT infrastructure.
It is worth noting that the administrators could connect both to the corporate
and the restricted network segments to maintain systems and provide users
with technical support in both zones. As a result, by gaining control of
administrator workstations the attackers were able to access the restricted
network segment.
However, since directly routing traffic between the segments was not possible,
the attackers couldn’t use their standard malware set to exfiltrate data from the
restricted segment to the C2.
The situation changed on July 2 when the attackers managed to obtain the
credentials for the router used by the administrators to connect to systems in
both segments. The router was a virtual machine running CentOS to route
traffic between several network interfaces based on predefined rules.
Connection layout between victim’s network segments
According to the evidence collected, the attackers scanned the router’s ports
and detected a Webmin interface. Next, the attackers logged in to the web
interface using a privileged root account. It’s unknown how the attackers were
able to obtain the credentials for that account, but it’s possible the credentials
were saved in one of the infected system’s browser password managers.
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
12
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
Log listing Webmin web interface logins
By gaining access to the configuration panel the attackers configured the
Apache web server and started using the router as a proxy server between the
organization’s corporate and restricted segments.
List of services used on the router
Several days after that, on July 10, 2020, the attackers connected to the router
via SSH and set up the PuTTy PSCP (the PuTTY Secure Copy client) utility on
one of the infected machines. This utility was used to upload malware to the
router VM. This enabled the attackers to place malware onto systems in the
restricted segment of the enterprise network, using the router to host the
samples. In addition, malware running in the network’s restricted segment was
able to exfiltrate the collected data to the command-and-control server via the
Apache server set up on the same router.
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
13
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
New connection layout after attacker’s intrusion
In the course of the investigation we identified malware samples with the
hardcoded URL of the router used as a proxy server.
Hardcoded proxy address in the malware
Since the attackers regularly deleted log files from the router, only a handful of
commands entered to the command line via SSH could be recovered. An analysis
of these commands shows that the attackers tried to reconfigure traffic routing
using the route command.
Attacker commands
The attackers also ran the nmap utility on the router VM and scanned ports on
systems within the restricted segment of the enterprise network. On September
27, the attackers started removing all traces of their activity from the router,
using the logrotate utility to set up automatic deletion of log files.
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
14
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
Webmin log