Operating Model
To gain an overview of the threat actor’s infrastructure, we separated it into two clusters. The first cluster
is mainly constructed with virtual private servers (VPS) that rent from the service provider Vultr. By
analyzing the records from passive DNS databases, the earliest server they used via Vultr could be
traced back to April 2019. The infrastructure was mentioned in a report, dated January 2020, covering
targeted attacks on Hong Kong’s universities.
Earth Lusca built a second cluster mainly composed of compromised web servers beginning around mid2020. We noticed that many of these compromised servers were running old versions of open-source
editions of Oracle GlassFish Server. Furthermore, it also adopted Cloudflare as a proxy for compromised
servers to prevent people from finding their server IP addresses directly. However, the passive DNS data
and the misconfiguration of certificates allowed us to identify some of the compromised servers behind
the proxy. A similar analysis of this infrastructure cluster was previously mentioned in an earlier report
from the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) group.
We found that these two infrastructure clusters are responsible for different roles in an attack. The first
cluster acts as the command-and-control (C&C) server for malware — including Cobalt Strike,
ShadowPad, FunnySwitch, and Winnti — that the group uses to infect victims. The second cluster
similarly acted as a Cobalt Strike C&C server — however, it was also used to scan for vulnerabilities in
the public-facing servers of their targets or building traffic tunnels within the victim’s network.
In a real-life scenario that we investigated, Earth Lusca owned and used multiple servers, as can be seen
on Figure 2. These servers were split into different roles, which may have been used for single attack
operations. The initial scanning done by the threat actor came from a different IP address, showing that
they deliberately used their servers for a single purpose: to make it more difficult to defend against the
attack.
Scanning by itself is very common, and is not a very accurate method of determining where an attack
comes from. An organization’s security team might be misled towards a different direction and actually
miss out on detecting the real attack — in essence, the attacker feints an attack to trick defenders down
the wrong path.