Dangerous shopping
The number of attacks on retail and commerce increased by 56 percent compared
to Q3, reaching a new high for the last two years.
39
34
29
22
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
© Positive Technologies
Figure 15. Number of attacks on retail and commerce
When attacking retail and commerce, threat actors are typically seeking payment
card data, which accounted for 33 percent of all data stolen in Q4. Other targets
include customers' personal data (27%) and credentials (20%).
10% 7% 3% 33%
Payment card information
Personal data
Credentials
Corporate secrets
Medical records
Client databases
© Positive Technologies
20% 27%
Figure 16. Data stolen in attacks on retail and commerce
Ransomware was used in 31 percent of incidents. One notable example is the at-
tack on South Korean retailer E-Land on November 22. The ransomware opera
tor had persistence on the company's network for more than a year. During this
time, they exfiltrated credit card data with the help of POS malware. The company
learned of the data breach only after the ransomware attack. As a result, E-Land
was forced to shut down 23 stores. Attackers failed to capture CVCs and CVVs, but
the amount of stolen data is enough to create fake cards.
15
Magecart attacks accounted for 23 percent of incidents. The most interesting
thing about these attacks is how they are made stealthy. For example, researchers
at cybersecurity company Sansec discovered web skimmers inside CSS code on
the sites of three different online stores. This tactic is useful for evading detection,
since CSS code is not commonly checked by security scanners and will most likely
escape attention during manual audits. The skimmer script launched only when
customers of compromised sites started to enter payment or personal information.
                                               [Sansec discovered another sophisticated stealth method, involving hiding a mali](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/credit-card-stealing-malware-hides-in-social-media-sharing-icons/)

cious payload in social media SVG sharing icons. The code of the skimmer script
is loaded as an HTML element. A separate decoder can be deliberately deployed
somewhere else because if only one of the malware components is found, an infos
ec expert may conclude that the malware is inactive.
Malefactors did not pass up Black Friday: a self-healing skimmer was discovered
on over 50 online stores. On the compromised sites, the skimmer script showed
a fake payment form and then sent all of the intercepted data to the real check
out page. The transaction process was virtually indistinguishable from the real
thing, so security systems did not raise any flags. For robust persistence, attackers
placed four payload components on the hacked websites:
1) Backdoor loader, to install the skimmer
2) Backdoor watchdog, to restore the backdoor in the event of detection and
deletion
3) Web skimmer
4) Infostealer, to steal administrator credentials
Therefore, even if the entire infection and healing chain were to be discovered, the
infostealer would still provide continuous access to servers, allowing the attack
ers to deploy all the payload components a second time. The infection became
possible in the first place only because all the compromised stores were running
Magento versions 2.2.3–2.2.7, despite being urged to upgrade to a more recent
version.
Even when criminals do not manage to hack online stores, customers may still not
receive products due to attacks on other links in the supply chain, such as deliv
ery. One such incident struck Russian delivery service PickPoint on December 4.
Attackers hacked the company's network of package lockers, remotely opening
2,732 lockers in Moscow and St. Petersburg. The process of restoring systems took
several days.