The Worker
https://www.telekom.com/en/blog/group/article/lolsnif-tracking-another-ursnif-based-targeted-campaign-600062 3/10
5/15/2020 Cybersecurity: Tool leaks are very interesting occurrences in cyber security. | Deutsche Telekom
LOLSnif’s worker still resembles an original Ursnif worker. For instance, the general structure of
the project is still preserved. This includes peculiarities like the configuration storage using JJ
structures and the encrypted “.bss” section that holds strings and other data that deserves
protection. Although there are some slight changes to the encryption algorithm. However, there
are several interesting enhancements that I will detail later on.
Its configuration format is the same as its ancestor. The following screenshot shows a
configuration blob that is highlighted with colors. Its first part compromises structures with offsets
to strings and information on the data type. At the end of the blob (grey area) are these strings
stored. For instance, the area highlighted in blue contains the command and control server
addresses. This area is followed by a list of public DNS server. Notably this blob contains
configuration parameters for a DGA (Domain Generation Algorithm), e.g. the domain where to
download keywords for domain generation (constitution[.]org). However, LOLSnif does not
comprise any functionality to generate domain names.
Configuration blob
As its ancestor Ursnif, LOLSnif comes with a encrypted “.bss” section that holds, for example,
strings. This section is decrypted on startup. However, the decryption algorithm differs slightly
from the original code base. The following screenshot depicts the decryption algorithm. The
decryption key is still based on the sample’s compilation date, which is hard-coded in the binary.
However, there are some modifications to this key. Also, the original Ursnif utilized a rolling XOR
algorithm, where LOLSnif’s algorithm is based on add / sub instructions. The full list of decrypted
strings can be found in Appendix B (pdf, 121.5 KB).
https://www.telekom.com/en/blog/group/article/lolsnif-tracking-another-ursnif-based-targeted-campaign-600062 4/10
5/15/2020 Cybersecurity: Tool leaks are very interesting occurrences in cyber security. | Deutsche Telekom
Decryption algorithm
Furthermore, some strings do not have references. Hence, they are dead and not needed. While
this may be an issue with the disassembler, this is rather an issue with the code. The strings are
defined in Ursnif's code as macros (see header file “Common/cschar.h”). Therefore, the authors
of the malware must keep track of them. This may suggest that this functionality is not yet
implemented, or the author forgot to clean up all unused functionality like in the DGA example.
The interaction with the registry is implemented in two ways: via native Win32 APIs (e.g.
RegOpenKey, RegEnumKey, RegCloseKey) and via Windows Management Instrumentation
(WMI). There are wrapper functions that take a Boolean argument in order to decide whether to
use the Win32 API or WMI. For instance, the following screenshot shows a wrapper function for
setting a string value of a registry key. The first argument (annotated as “use_wmi” in the
disassembly) determines the use of native API or WMI.
https://www.telekom.com/en/blog/group/article/lolsnif-tracking-another-ursnif-based-targeted-campaign-600062 5/10
5/15/2020 Cybersecurity: Tool leaks are very interesting occurrences in cyber security. | Deutsche Telekom
Wrapper function
LOLSnif seems to be only built for x86. However, it clearly anticipates that it will run on x64
platforms as well. For instance, it utilizes the flag “__ProviderArchitecture” to request data from a
64 bit WMI provider as an 32 bit application.
Another interesting aspect is that LOLSnif makes extensive use of COM interfaces. It was
reported that this malware instruments the Internet Explorer via IWebBrowser in order to contact
its Command and Control servers (CC). This tactic allows it to bypass any proxy configuration in a
cooperate network since Internet Explorer typically knows how to talk to the proxy. LOLSnif
anticipates that there might be invalid certificate warnings since it searches in the DOM via
IHTMLElement for the string “invalidcert”. If it encounters this string, then it confirms the warning
to send the payload to the CC server. However, the current sample does not utilize https but
rather plain http. Furthermore, the malware sets Internet Explorer as standard browser in order to
avoid any popups during operation.
This Ursnif variant makes use of LOLBins (as also pointed out in this blog). For instance, LOLBins
are utilized to start the malware from the registry (mshta.exe + powershell.exe). Furthermore,
LOLSnif is capable of download and execute further modules as well as payloads. For instance, a
recent blog post mentions that the associated actor dropped a Cobalt Strike BEACON as well as
a legitimate TeamViewer VNC client.