Executive Summary
Unit 42 researchers have investigated a series of destructive cyberattacks beginning in
January 2023 and continuing as recently as October 2023, targeting the education and
technology sectors in Israel.
The attacks are characterized by attempts to steal sensitive data, such as personally
identifiable information (PII) and intellectual property. Once the attackers stole the
information, they deployed various wipers intended to cover the attackers’ tracks and to
render the infected endpoints unusable.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/agonizing-serpens-targets-israeli-tech-higher-ed-sectors/ 1/29
1/16/24, 1:00 PM Agonizing Serpens (Aka Agrius) Targeting the Israeli Higher Education and Tech Sectors
Our investigation revealed the perpetrators of the attacks have strong connections to an
Iranian-backed APT group Unit 42 tracks as Agonizing Serpens (aka Agrius,
BlackShadow, Pink Sandstorm, DEV-0022).
Unit 42 researchers were also able to identify novel new wipers and tools that Agonizing
Serpens used in their most recent attacks:
MultiLayer wiper
PartialWasher wiper
BFG Agonizer wiper
Sqlextractor - a custom tool to extract information from database servers
Based on forensic evidence, it appears that the Agonizing Serpens APT group has
recently upgraded their capabilities and they are investing great efforts and resources to
attempt to bypass endpoint detection and response (EDR) and other security measures.
To do so, they have been rotating between using different known proof of concept (PoC)
and pentesting tools as well as custom tools.
For the attacks described below, the attacker was unsuccessful at bypassing Cortex
XDR. Cortex XDR and XSIAM detect and prevent the execution flow described. They also
build behavioral profiles of user activity over time with machine learning, allowing them to
detect anomalous activity indicative of, for example, credential-based attacks.
We are sharing this research to provide detection, prevention and hunting
recommendations to help organizations protect against the threats associated with
Agonizing Serpens.
Related Unit 42 Topics APT, Education