SUMMARY
This Joint Cybersecurity Advisory was written by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to provide information on a Chinese
Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) group known in open-source reporting as APT40. This advisory
provides APT40’s tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) and indicators of compromise (IOCs) to
help cybersecurity practitioners identify and remediate APT40 intrusions and established footholds.
APT40—aka BRONZE MOHAWK, FEVERDREAM, G0065, Gadolinium, GreenCrash, Hellsing,
Kryptonite Panda, Leviathan, MUDCARP, Periscope, Temp.Periscope, and Temp.Jumper—is located
in Haikou, Hainan Province, People’s Republic of China (PRC), and has been active since at least
2009. APT40 has targeted governmental organizations, companies, and universities in a wide range
of industries—including biomedical, robotics, and maritime research—across the United States,
Canada, Europe, the Middle East, and the South China Sea area, as well as industries included in
China’s Belt and Road Initiative.
On July 19, 2021, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) unsealed an indictment against four APT40
cyber actors for their illicit computer network exploitation (CNE) activities via front company Hainan
Xiandun Technology Development Company (Hainan Xiandun). Hainan Xiandun employee Wu
Shurong cooperated with and carried out orders from PRC Ministry of State Security (MSS) Hainan
State Security Department (HSSD) intelligence officers Ding Xiaoyang, Zhu Yunmin, and Cheng
Qingmin to conduct CNE. Wu’s CNE activities resulted in the theft of trade secrets, intellectual
property, and other high-value information from companies and organizations in the United States
and abroad, as well as from multiple foreign governments. These MSS-affiliated actors targeted
victims in the following industries: academia, aerospace/aviation, biomedical, defense industrial base,
education, government, healthcare, manufacturing, maritime, research institutes, and transportation
(rail and shipping).
To report suspicious or criminal activity related to information found in this Joint Cybersecurity Advisory, contact
your local FBI field office at www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field, or the FBI’s 24/7 Cyber Watch (CyWatch) at
(855) 292-3937 or by e-mail at CyWatch@fbi.gov. When available, please include the following information
regarding the incident: date, time, and location of the incident; type of activity; number of people affected; type of
equipment used for the activity; the name of the submitting company or organization; and a designated point of
contact. To request incident response resources or technical assistance related to these threats, contact CISA at
CISAServiceDesk@cisa.dhs.gov.
This document is marked TLP:WHITE. Disclosure is not limited. Sources may use TLP:WHITE when information
carries minimal or no foreseeable risk of misuse, in accordance with applicable rules and procedures for public
release. Subject to standard copyright rules, TLP:WHITE information may be distributed without restriction.
For more information on the Traffic Light Protocol, see https://www.cisa.gov/tlp .
TLP:WHITE