Meet Indra
Our scrutiny revealed not only the attacks’ targets, but also the identity of the group behind these operations — a group that calls itself “Indra” after the Hindu God of War. In fact, Indra did not try to
hide that they are responsible for these operations, and left their signature in multiple places.
The image that was displayed by the attackers on the victims’ locked computers announces “I am Indra” and takes the responsibility for the attacks on Katerji group.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2021/indra-hackers-behind-recent-attacks-on-iran/ 12/27
8/16/2021 Indra — Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran - Check Point Research
Wallpaper set up by the Indra actor on victims machines, taking responsibility for the attacks and blaming the Katerji Group for
“supporting terrorists” and “trading souls”
https://research.checkpoint.com/2021/indra-hackers-behind-recent-attacks-on-iran/ 13/27
8/16/2021 Indra — Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran - Check Point Research
Indra takes responsibility for the attack in which it deployed “Comet”.
In addition, all samples of the wiper but Meteor, contain multiple occurrences of the string “INDRA”. It is used by the Comet variant as the username of a newly created Administrator account. On
Stardust though, it serves as an inert artifact, and is not involved in execution.
INDRA string inside the Stardust wiper
We wondered whether this Indra attack group has any online presence, and in fact, they do. They operate multiple social network accounts on different platforms, including Twitter, Facebook, Telegram,
and Youtube. Among other information, the accounts contain the disclosure of the attacks on the aforementioned companies:
https://research.checkpoint.com/2021/indra-hackers-behind-recent-attacks-on-iran/ 14/27
8/16/2021 Indra — Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran - Check Point Research
Indra group Twitter account takes responsibility for the attacks on Arfada
Surveying this social network activity, one can get an idea of the group’s political ideology and motive for the attack, and even hear about some of the group’s previous operations.
The title of INDRA’s official twitter account states that they are “aiming to bring a stop to the horrors of QF and its murderous proxies in the region” and they claim to be very focused on attacking
different companies who allegedly cooperate with the Iranian regime, especially with the Quds-Force and Hezbollah. Their posts are all written in English or Arabic (both don’t seem to be their native
language), and most talk about opposing terror or offer document leaks from the various different companies that fell victim to the group’s attacks due to suspected ties to the Iranian Quads Force.
In their first message, posted September 2019, INDRA claims to have carried out a successful attack against the company Alfadelex, demolished their network, and leaked the customers’ and employees’
data. One of the pictures that were posted by Indra from the hack against Alfadelex shows a webcam photo of a person sitting in front of a computer as they were watching the image we found used by
Comet on their screen (one can only imagine how they felt at that moment). Another image, displayed on Alfadelex’s website, has the same background as the other images we found used in the attacks
against Alfadelex, Katerji, and Arfada.
This background image also appears as the cover photo of Indra’s Twitter and Facebook accounts.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2021/indra-hackers-behind-recent-attacks-on-iran/ 15/27
8/16/2021 Indra — Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran - Check Point Research
A screenshot of the attack on Alfadelex posted in Indra’s Twitter account
https://research.checkpoint.com/2021/indra-hackers-behind-recent-attacks-on-iran/ 16/27
8/16/2021 Indra — Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran - Check Point Research
The infected computer displays the photograph we found from the attack on Alfadelex