The Sednit Group
The Sednit group — variously also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Pawn Storm, STRONTIUM
and Tsar Team — is a group of attackers operating since 2004 if not earlier, whose main objective
is to steal confidential information from specific targets. Over the past two years, this group’s activity
has increased significantly, with numerous attacks against government departments and embassies
all over the world.
Among their most notable presumed targets are the American Democratic National Committee [1],
the German parliament [2] and the French television network TV5Monde [3] . Moreover, the Sednit
group has a special interest in Eastern Europe, where it regularly targets individuals and organizations
involved in geopolitics.
One of the striking characteristics of the Sednit group is its ability to come up with brand-new 0-day [4]
vulnerabilities regularly. In 2015, the group exploited no fewer than six 0-day vulnerabilities, as shown
in Figure 1.
i
CVE-2015-3043
Flash
CVE-2015-1701
Windows LPE
i
CVE-2015-2590
Java
CVE-2015-4902
Java click-to-play bypass
i
CVE-2015-7645
Flash
i
i
i
i
APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT
CVE-2015-2424
Office RCE
i
Figure 1. Timeline of 0-day vulnerabilities exploited by the Sednit group in 2015
This high number of 0-day exploits suggests significant resources available to the Sednit group, either
because the group members have the skills and time to find and weaponize these vulnerabilities,
or because they have the budget to purchase the exploits.
Also, over the years the Sednit group has developed a large software ecosystem to perform
its espionage activities. The diversity of this ecosystem is quite remarkable; it includes dozens
of custom programs, with many of them being technically advanced, like the Xagent and Sedreco
modular backdoors (described in the second part of this whitepaper), or the Downdelph bootkit
and rootkit (described in the third part of this whitepaper).
We present the results of ESET’s two-year pursuit of the Sednit group, during which we uncovered
and analyzed many of their operations. We split our publication into three independent parts:

“ Part 1: Approaching the Target ” describes the kinds of targets the Sednit group is after,
and the methods used to attack them. It also contains a detailed analysis of the group’s
most-used reconnaissance malware.

46