About the Authors
Răzvan Benchea has been working as a malware researcher for more than eight years. He is an associate professor at the Alexandru Ioan
Cuza university of Iaşi where he teaches operating systems and assembly language. Răzvan’s areas of expertise includes APT forensics
and reverse engineering. His academic accomplishments include a PhD in machine learning algorithms for malware detection.
Alexandru Maximciuc spent the past 10 years doing antimalware research at Bitdefender. He is an expert in reverse engineering and
cryptanalysis. Alexandru has played a key role in the analysis and mapping of the PushDO botnet and is in charge with the automation of
sinkholing operations.
Cristina Vatamanu is a malware researcher with a focus on botnets. With more than six years of experience in reverse engineering, exploit
analysis and cryptography, Cristina has brought her contribution to the threat intelligence scene at conferences such as AVAR and Virus
Bulletin.
Victor Luncasu is a junior malware researcher focused on algorithms and data structures. His experience includes reverse engineering and
payload analysis as well as custom communication protocols between bots and command & control servers.
[25]
Bitdefender is a global security technology company that delivers solutions in more than 100 countries through a network of value-added alliances, distributors and
reseller partners. Since 2001, Bitdefender has consistently produced award-winning business and consumer security technology, and is a leading security provider in
virtualization and cloud technologies. Through R&D, alliances and partnership teams, Bitdefender has elevated the highest standards of security excellence in both its
number-one-ranked technology and its strategic alliances with the world’s leading virtualization and cloud technology providers. More information is available at
http://www.bitdefender.com/
All Rights Reserved. © 2015 Bitdefender. All trademarks, trade names, and products referenced herein are property of their respective owners.
FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT: enterprise.bitdefender.com