Mitigations
We recommend that users conduct the following measures to detect and mitigate observed TTPs
associated with RedJuliett activity:


Ensure a risk-based approach for patching vulnerabilities, prioritizing high-risk vulnerabilities and
those being exploited in the wild as determined through the Recorded Future Vulnerability
Intelligence module. Regarding Chinese state-sponsored groups, prioritize addressing remote
code execution (RCE) vulnerabilities in popular VPN, mail server, firewall, and load-balancing
appliances. Pay particular attention to F5 BIG-IP, Fortinet FortiGate, and ZyXEL ZyWALL devices,
as they were targeted by RedJuliett.


Recorded Future Third-Party Intelligence module users can monitor real-time output to identify
suspected targeted intrusion activity involving key vendors and partners within physical,
network, and software supply chains.


By monitoring Malicious Traffic Analysis (MTA), Recorded Future clients can alert on and
proactively monitor infrastructure that may be involved in notable communication to known
RedJuliett command-and-control (C2) IP addresses.


Install the Recorded Future® Threat Intelligence Browser Extension to get instant access to
threat intelligence from any web-based resource. This extension enables users to process alerts
faster within their security information and event management (SIEM) and prioritize
vulnerabilities for patching.


Ensure security monitoring and detection capabilities are in place for all external-facing services
and devices. Monitor for follow-on activity likely to occur following exploitation of these
external-facing services, such as the deployment of web shells, backdoors, or reverse shells and
subsequent lateral movement to internal networks.


Practice network segmentation, such as isolating internet-facing services in a network
demilitarized zone (DMZ).


Review public guidance on mitigating common TTPs used by Chinese state-sponsored groups (1,
2, 3, 4). Review Insikt Group’s report Charting China’s Climb as a Leading Global Cyber Power for
trends and recommendations for mitigating Chinese advanced persistent threat (APT) activity
more broadly.

