Attack Details
At the beginning of February 2018, we discovered an attack targeting two government institutions related
to foreign affairs. These entities are not regionally congruent, and the only shared victimology involves
their organizational functions. Specifically, one organization is geographically located in Europe and the
other in North America. The initial attack vector leveraged a phishing email (seen in Figure 1), using the
subject line of Upcoming Defense events February 2018 and a sender address claiming to be from Jane’s
360 defense events events@ihsmarkit.com. Jane’s (http://www.janes.com/) by IHSMarkit is a well-
known supplier of information and analysis often times associated with the defense and government
sector. Analysis of the email header data showed that the sender address was spoofed and did not
originate from IHSMarkit at all. The lure text in the phishing email claims the attachment is a calendar of
events relevant to the targeted organizations and contained specific instructions regarding the actions the
victim would have to take if they had “trouble viewing the document”.
Figure 1 Spear-phishing email used in the attack campaign
The attachment itself is an Microsoft Excel XLS document that contains malicious macro script. The
document presents itself as a standard macro document but has all of its text hidden until the victim
enables macros. Notably, all of the content text is accessible to the victim even before macros are
enabled. However, a white font color is applied to the text to make it appear that the victim must enable
macros to access the content. Once the macro is enabled, the content is presented via the following
code:
ActiveSheet.Range(“a1:c54”).Font.Color = vbBlack
The code above changes the font color to black within the specified cell range and presents the content
to the user. On initial inspection, the content appears to be the expected legitimate content, however,
closer examination of the document shows several abnormal artifacts that would not exist in a legitimate
document. Figure 2 below shows how the delivery document initially looks and the transformation the
content undergoes as the macro runs.
Figure 2 Delivery document before and after the macro is run