// Behind the first stone
We had the opportunity to analyze what the actor did in the backend in order to manage the
victims of the first stage implanter that has been described. The remote script, at least as far as
observed, is copied into legitimate compromised sites. It also includes the possibility to decide if
and when the second level payload is to be released and works through blacklists and whitelists
in order to protect the final backdoor from unwanted spread.
https://blog.telsy.com/the-lazarus-gaze-to-the-world-what-is-behind-the-first-stone/ 6/9
11/7/2019 Telsy TRT
It looks like a heavily obfuscated VBScript artifact. Here an extract from the original retrieved
code:
After retrieving the original instructions set, it has been possible to deeply understand the working
logic behind; The remote script works mainly through Request.Form variables that are filled
when receiving beacons from victims and by local variables named as following:


strworkdir : The working folder within the compromised wwwroot .


strlogpath : The path to the file used in order to log victims’ data. In this case a fake .mp3 file


strwhitefile : The path to the file used in order to store whitelisted victims IP address. In this
case, a fake .mp3 file.


strblackfile : The path to the file used in order to store the blacklisted IP address. In this case,
a fake .mp3 file.


Parameters “ gl ” and “ hl ” are used respectively to retrieve system info about victims and OS
architecture. On the basis of what we have collected, the log file mapped by strlogpath variable
is then updated with a new row comprising victim IP address, victim system info, request
timestamp and adopted case in handling the victim.
The cases that have been designed by the threat actor can be four on the basis of interest for the
victim:

case_1_64 /86 : MD5 of IP address that made the request is on whitelist. The actor has

selected the victim to be infected with a second-stage payload. TorisMa_x64 /86 payload is
then released to the victim.

case_2_64/86 : MD5 of IP address that made the request is on blacklist. The actor wants to

prevent the spreading of the second stage payload to that IP address. Doris_x64/86 (non
sense chars) payload is then released to the victim.

case_3 : The victim results of particular interest for the threat actor on the basis of retrieved

system info (identified with a value of 24 of “ ned “). Second stage payload is not yet
delivered.

case_4: The victim results of no particular interest for the threat actor. no previous

condition has been met. Second stage payload is not yet delivered.
https://blog.telsy.com/the-lazarus-gaze-to-the-world-what-is-behind-the-first-stone/ 7/9
11/7/2019 Telsy TRT
Below, the primary construct used to manage what is received by the backend script: