2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 2
Foreword
The CrowdStrike 2022
Global Threat Report
provides crucial insights
into what security teams
need to know about to
stay ahead of today's
threats in an increasingly
ominous threat
landscape.
or security teams on the front lines and those of us in the business
of stopping cyberattacks and breaches, 2021 provided no rest for the
weary. In the face of massive disruption brought about by the COVID##### F driven social, economic and technological shifts of 2020, adversaries
refined their tradecraft to become even more sophisticated and brazen. The result
was a series of high-profile attacks that rocked many organizations and, on their
own, represented watershed moments in cybersecurity.
As organizations scrambled at the start of 2021 to protect supply chains and
interconnected systems in the face of the incredibly sophisticated Sunburst attack,
adversaries exploited zero-day vulnerabilities and architectural limitations in legacy
systems like Microsoft to leave many reeling. At the same time, eCrime syndicates
refined and amplified big game hunting (BGH) ransomware attacks that ripped
across industries, sowing devastation and sounding the alarm on the frailty of our
critical infrastructure.
For security teams already dealing with an ongoing skills shortage, these issues
proved challenging enough on their own. But the strain on security teams was
amplified even more at the end of the year when the ubiquitous Log4Shell
vulnerability threatened a complete security meltdown.
Understanding these events gives visibility into the shifting dynamics of adversary
tactics, which is critical for staying ahead of today’s threats. This is the context
that the CrowdStrike 2022 Global Threat Report delivers. Developed based on the
firsthand observations of our elite CrowdStrike Intelligence and Falcon OverWatch™
teams, combined with insights drawn from the vast telemetry of the CrowdStrike
Security Cloud, this year’s report provides crucial insights into what security teams
need to know about an increasingly ominous threat landscape.
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 3
Among the details you’ll learn in this year’s report:
[How state-sponsored adversaries targeted IT and cloud service providers ]
to exploit trusted relationships and supply chain partners
[How state-sponsored adversaries weaponized vulnerabilities to evade ]
detection and gain access to critical applications and infrastructure
[How sophisticated adversaries exploited stolen credentials and identities ]
to amplify ransomware BGH attacks and infiltrate cloud environments
[How malicious actors intensified attacks on critical cloud infrastructure ]
with new, sophisticated approaches
Enterprise risk is
coalescing around three
critical areas:
Endpoints
and cloud workloads
Identity
Data
Our annual report also paints a picture that shows enterprise risk is coalescing
around three critical areas: endpoints and cloud workloads, identity and data. Threat
actors continue to exploit vulnerabilities across endpoints and cloud environments,
and ramp up innovation on how they use identities and stolen credentials to bypass
legacy defenses — all to reach their goal, which is your data. CrowdStrike has
observed that 62% of attacks comprise non-malware, hands-on-keyboard activity.
As adversaries advance their tradecraft in this manner to bypass legacy security
solutions, autonomous machine learning alone is not good enough to stop dedicated
attackers.
CrowdStrike is relentless in our drive to keep you ahead of adversaries today and
into the future. To meet the adversaries head-on, we’re unifying a modern approach
to security with a platform that connects the machine both to the identity and the
data to deliver full Zero Trust protection. As adversaries shift to targeting cloud
workloads, we’re providing deep visibility and proactive security across the entire
cloud-native stack. To alleviate the burden of the constant cycle of patching,
we’re prioritizing the vulnerabilities that create the most risk. And for the most
sophisticated attacks, we’ve delivered powerful new extended detection and
response (XDR) capabilities to help overwhelmed security teams automate response
and reduce the time it takes to hunt across domains.
2021 taught us that no matter how much adversity we face, the adversary will not
rest. Attacks are growing more destructive, causing mass disruption in all aspects
of our daily lives. But this is the challenge we’ve accepted and a fight that we will
win together . I hope you find this report informative and that it gives you the same
clarity of purpose it gives me: to be unrelenting in our drive to stop adversaries from
stopping business and our way of life.
George Kurtz
CrowdStrike CEO and Co-Founder
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 4
Table of Contents
5
7
8
Introduction
Naming Conventions
Threat Landscape Overview
2022
Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 5
Introduction
In 2021,
targeted intrusion
adversaries continued
to adapt to the
changing operational
opportunities and
strategic requirements
of technology and world
events.
s we reflect upon 2021, two overarching themes come to the forefront:
adaptability and perseverance. Businesses are finding paths forward
with new technologies and solutions, adapting in the face of adversity