An Attack on Agari
On November 29, 2018, Scattered Canary sent an attack email to Agari CFO Raymond
Lim, enquiring as to his availability to send out a domestic wire transfer. This display name
deception attempt was quarantined by Agari Advanced Threat Protection™, and we then
actively engaged with the attacker in an attempt to establish his true intentions. What followed
was a series of engagements that resulted in our team gaining deep insight into this group—
including its scattershot origins, how its actors fit together, and how it achieved its remarkable
growth trajectory.
6
Using an unrelated persona account, we reached out to the actor and asked them to send over
the details of the wire transfer they wished us to make.
7
It wasn’t long before we received a reply containing the full details for both the bank account
and the amount of $19,725.
8
As is common with nearly all our active engagements that request a bank payment, the
request was caveated with a requirement for a confirmation receipt to be sent upon
completion. This document is an essential part of the operational paperwork, as it allows
individual actors to prove to the Scattered Canary executive team that a successful payment
has been obtained. It also allows them to counter any argument by the mule account gobetween—especially if they are a third-party mule account broker—that no payment has been
received, when in actual fact it has. Working as an opportunistic criminal, alongside other
opportunistic criminals, does not come without its challenges.
After this initial engagement, we continued interacting with Scattered Canary for nearly
two more months. Over the course of this engagement, we coerced the group to send us
eight different mule accounts used to receive illicit funds from BEC victims and passed
this information to law enforcement and financial partners. Using a combination of active
engagement and other tactics, we were able to gain significant insight into Scattered Canary’s
history, methods, and primary actors. What follows is an overview of what we discovered
during our investigation.
9