Final notes
Cyber-Espionage Report Team
The Cyber-Espionage Report (CER) Team is a subset of
VTRAC combined with elements of the DBIR Team. We’ve
spent years investigating advanced threat actor data breaches,
assessing cybersecurity postures and advising on IR measures
in our current roles and previous lives.
Verizon thought leadership
Data Breach Investigations Report (DBIR)
    - Data Breaches/Cybersecurity Incidents


     - 9 x Incident Classification Patterns |

9 x CIS CSCs
• enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/
dbir/
Managing Director
Chris Novak
Authors
John Grim, Ashish Thapar,
Amy Ayers, Anshuman
Sharma, Nicolas Villatte,
Damian John Werts, Domingo
Jesus Alvarez-Fernandez
About VTRAC
Contributors
David Kennedy, Alex Pinto,
Phillipe Langlois, Suzanne
Widup
The Verizon Threat Research Advisory Center (VTRAC)
has been assisting customers globally with maturing and
improving their IR readiness for more than 14 years. In
conducting its engagements, VTRAC uses industry best
practices—such as the NIST Cybersecurity Framework—and
our VIPR phases, as well as our expertise from the more than
500 incidents we investigate globally each year. We cover all
five functional areas of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
Our capabilities include endpoint forensics, network forensics,
malware reverse engineering, threat intelligence, threat hunting,
dark web research, mobile device forensics and complex data
recovery, as well as breach simulations, cyber threat landscape
briefings, IR capability assessments, first responder training,
and IR Plan and playbook development.
VTRAC has written the book—literally—on data breaches,
from starting the DBIR phenomenon and contributing annually
to the Payment Security Report to creating the Data Breach
Digests, Insider Threat Report, Incident Preparedness and
Response Report and now the CER.
With the CER now under our proverbial belts, the only
question left unanswered is:
What will VTRAC set its sights on next? Stay tuned to find
out...
About the cover
Cyber-Espionage breaches occur when external attackers,
such as State-affiliated or Nation-state threat actors,
penetrate victim organization cyberdefenses to steal sensitive
data or proprietary information. The cover image for our firstever Cyber-Espionage Report depicts a Cyber-Espionage
breach at the moment the attacker pierces the veil of security
en route to plundering their targeted victim’s critical assets
and most sensitive information.
Mobile Security Index (MSI)


Mobile Devices/IoT/Wi-Fi Security Insight


5 x Fortify Levels


• enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/
mobile-security-index/
Insider Threat Report (ITR)

Insider Threat Breaches/Cybersecurity

Incidents

5 x Breach Scenarios |

11 x Countermeasures
• enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/
insider-threat-report/
Verizon Insider Preparedness and
Response (VIPR) Report

IR Plan review and breach simulation

exercise insight

5 x Breach Scenarios | 6 x VIPR Phases |

20 x Key Takeaways
• enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/
vipr/
Payment Security Report (PSR)


PCI Assessment/PFI Investigation Insight


12 x PCI DSS Requirements


• verizon.com/business/resources/reports/
payment-security-report/
58 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report