$25,000+
is a fine for violating the
MCC 7995 requirement

In addition, banks assign MCC codes based on data that
companies themselves provide. To be able to operate in Russia,
online casinos specify other MCC codes. For example, Azino used
the code 6012 (sale of certificates and consulting services as well
as loan payments), while the actual recipient was the company
Victory 777 N.V, which held a Curaçao license. [14 ] In December
2018, the company was placed on the list of entities for which
there is information that they organize and host gambling games
in violation of Russian law. This list is kept by the Russian Federal
Tax Service and includes 42 companies. It was last updated
in August 2019.
To verify payment information, Group-IB specialists used the
website https://affgambler.ru/blacklisted-casinos, which lists the
most popular licensed and non-licensed online casinos.

Analysis suggests that all popular online casinos use exclusively
Russian banks [15] to accept payments, despite the fact that the
owners are based in Ukraine. None of the banks use MCC 7995
for this activity even though there are technical solutions that
help automatically check websites connected to the processing
system for illegal content (including related to online casinos).
Such actions by banks are ignored by the international payment
systems Visa and Mastercard and the Russian system Mir, which
runs counter to both the rules of the payment systems themselves
and the provisions of the Central Bank of Russia.
There are almost no international precedents of online casinos
or bookmakers violating MCC 7995. Under the rules of international
payment systems, this type of violation is one of the most serious
ones, second only to payments for child pornography.
14 https://www.rbc.ru/magazine/2018/07/5b3f96df9a79475e9f9f5045
15  The names of the banks have not been disclosed in the report’s public version for
confidentiality reasons. This information has been provided to relevant government agencies.

Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries

© Group−IB
The economics of illegal resources 56
In Russia, Visa and Mastercard parent organizations fail
to address the ubiquitous violations. The reason could be their
poor understanding of the scale of online piracy in Russia and
the monetization of this business through the gaming industry.
As such, we have shared this report with the parent organizations
of the payment systems.
Distributing payments
For outgoing financial flows (namely players’ winnings and
commission payouts to webmasters for ads), acquiring banks
usually act as intermediaries. Payouts to webmasters seem
to be carried out through the online bank capitalist.net.
Attracting advertising
Attracting ad traffic to the aforementioned projects is done
in two ways.
The first method is advertising in the webmaster community,
which centers around the forums gofuckbiz.net, maultalk.com, and
armadaboard.com. Community members meet at various offline
events, mainly overseas to avoid the attention of law enforcers.
According to the information available, these forums also belong
to capitalist.net.
The second method involves ads through pirate websites
using specialized advertising agencies. One of such agencies
is Adwise Agency, whose links with Lucky Labs were confirmed
by the media. [16 ] Adwise Agency has been suspected of having
links with illegal online gambling and pirate websites (e.g. Kinogo,
HDRezka, Filmix, Kinoprofi), including by law enforcement agencies.
In February 2020, the Cyber Police of Ukraine searched Adwise
Agency’s offices in relation to the funding of the pirate websites
kinosha.se, kinanema.net, kinoprofi.vip, rezka.ag, and
filmix.co. [17]
16 https://www.rbc.ru/magazine/2018/07/5b3f96df9a79475e9f9f5045
17 https://ain.ua/2020/02/28/obyski-u-adwise/
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Russian infrastructure of illegal resources 57