The Techsprouts Hall of Mirrors
Being the first to publicize or spread an idea, regardless of what it may be, has often been all it
takes for that idea to manifest and take hold in the real world. BAHAMUT realized the power of this
technique and operationalized several different fake news sites at various points in time. One of
the first was identified and documented by Collin Anderson, writing for Bellingcat in 2017: Times
of Arab, “timesofarab[.]com”. Bellingcat was unable to assess its true purpose at the time it was
active. It appeared to merely mirror other legitimate news articles.
In the years since, BlackBerry managed to identify another, currently active technology news site
that generated original content on a routine basis: Techsprouts (“techsprouts[.]com”). Would you
be able to determine it was a fake? Maybe, but it fooled even the seasoned experts at Ireland’s
National Cyber Security Centre, who cited it in an industry news alert (National Cyber Security
Centre of Ireland, 2019).
Figure 1: National Cybersecurity Centre of Ireland page as of July 2020.
Figure 2: Techsprouts.com homepage as of July 27, 2020
Our research into the history of the Techsprouts domain led us to assess that it was originally
a legitimate website, one that focused predominantly on reviews of mobile devices. BlackBerry
identified the website’s original owner via the email used to register the domain, which was revealed
after privacy services had lapsed: “nitin.agarwal.1988[at]hotmail.com”. BlackBerry then tied this
email to the following Facebook account: “https://www.facebook.com/NitinAgarwal198/”, the
owner of which last posted on July 17, 2019. It appears that Nitin Agarwal is a freelance technology
journalist and reviewer in India.
Figure 3: Snapshot of Nitin Agarwal’s Facebook page
Within the past year, however, BAHAMUT appears to have re-registered the Techsprouts domain
and continued to operate it. After doing so, the roster of “contributors” did not appear to change.
Let’s consider these contributors for a moment. As seen below in For example, the image of “Alice
Jane”, a senior writer, was actually that of Julie Luck, the evening anchor at the local CBS station
in Greensboro, North Carolina (https://www.wfmynews2.com/article/about-us/team-bios/julieluck/83-47896832). She was not the only broadcast journalist whose image was repurposed by
Techsprouts. The photo of “Allen Parker” was actually that of Brian Shrader, a reporter and anchor
at the local NBC affiliate in Raleigh, North Carolina (https://www.wral.com/rs/bio/2543620/)., their
biographies are impressive, but upon further inspection, it is apparent that the thumbnail photos
of each author seen throughout the site have been appropriated from other sites and other people
with quite different names.
For example, the image of “Alice Jane”, a senior writer, was actually that of Julie Luck, the evening
anchor at the local CBS station in Greensboro, North Carolina (https://www.wfmynews2.com/
article/about-us/team-bios/julie-luck/83-47896832). She was not the only broadcast journalist
whose image was repurposed by Techsprouts. The photo of “Allen Parker” was actually that of
Brian Shrader, a reporter and anchor at the local NBC affiliate in Raleigh, North Carolina (https://
www.wral.com/rs/bio/2543620/).
Figure 4: Images of Alice Jane from Techsprouts (left) and Julie Luck of WFMY 2 (right)
Figure 5: Techsprouts masthead as of July 2020
In a similar vein, the photo of “Kanisha Parks” was really that of Ashley Barnes. The image of
“Joshua Bartholomew” was a photo of Ron Walker. The picture of “Allen Parker” belonged to Bryan
Shrader. “Mary Woods” – Delma Pedraza. “Ashlyn Fernandes” – David Walker. And the likeness of
Techsprouts’ Editor-in-Chief, “Graylan Janulus” was actually a different photo of a different man
also named David Walker.
Figure 6: Beginning on top, left to right, “Kanisha Parks”, Ashley Barnes, “Joshua Bartholomew”, Ron Walker, “Allen Parker”,
Bryan Shrader, “Mary Woods”, Delma Pedraza, “Ashlyn Fernandes”, David Walker, Techsprouts Editor-in-Chief, “Graylan
Janulus”, and David Walker.
After pausing to consider the images on the site, BlackBerry then focused on the articles themselves.
After the BAHAMUT takeover of the Techsprouts domain, we noticed a change in the tone and
subject matter of the articles. The mobile device reviews remained, but there were now more articles
that touched on security research and geopolitical themes. Given this change, we wondered whether
the “Nitin Agarwal” persona had any continued association with the website. Based on the number
and frequency of his posts, it appears he may very well have. In fact, it appears that he crossed
over to cover the more serious topics, too. The author “techno245” signed his posts with the handle
“nitin198” as seen on “https://techsprouts.com/author/techno245/” as well as in the figure below:
Figure 7: Techsprouts articles authored by Nitin198 as of July 2020.
In reviewing the recent news articles, BlackBerry noticed that Techsprouts closely follows the goings
on of private security companies like the NSO Group, which sells offensive cyber tools and services
to governments and law enforcement.