Conclusion
The observation of a moderately sized cross-section of cyber events within the oil and gas industry clearly
indicates that there is ongoing cyber conflict. This conflict exists in the form of espionage and sabotage, and it involves
both state and non-state actors. In the case of cyber espionage, these actors are advanced in the sense that they have
launched multi-year campaigns which have gone undetected as they have exflitrated what is likely untold billions of dol­
lars in intellectual property. There tactics represent a formalization and ritualization of the conflict which will suggests
that it has been weaponized and will continue to escalate in the future. The Chinese government is absolutely involved
in some capacity, and stands to gain the most out if these transactions. China will need to continue to make aggressive
moves to sustain its need for oil going forward as its ability to meet growing demand becomes overwhelmed. Red Octo­
ber, while largely targeted at diplomatic entities, also targeted the oil and gas industry. The sophistication of the infra­
structure used in Red October, as well as the methods, suggest a revolution in the type of cyber conflict that will be seen
in the oil and gas industry. A majority of these groups are still active as of April 2013, even after being outed in reports
released by antivirus and incident response companies over the last few years. These reports themselves represent one
aspect in which non-state actors will become ever more important in cyber conflict, particularly within important indus­
tries such as oil and gas. American companies are particularly vulnerable targets to state-backed or state-owned foreign
competitors who may in the future leverage their countries’ cyber forces to gain competitive advantage, or possible
develop their own.
This type of competitiveness may lead to the types of sabotage exchanges seen in the Middle East. These attacks
may either have been the work of nation-states battling out policy in the cyber realm, or unconnected events with the
Shamoon attacks merely being a disaffected hacktivist group expressing dissent. Regardless of origin, these exchanges
are clear examples of cyber conflict of a destructive nature. Going forward, the sophistication of the viruses used in these
attacks will likely only increase. Attacks like the flame and Stuxnet viruses may be seen by American companies within
the industry. The line between espionage and sabotage attacks can be somewhat blurred with viruses being modular and
having the capability to perform both; gathering intel while waiting undetected to unleash a more sinister capability. The
very use of these types of malware breeds and intimacy and familiarity with them that allows for their further prolifera­
tion by the parties who were previously attacked. Even if they cannot reverse engineer them, they may understand the
behaviors well enough to crudely mimic them.
As discussed at the beginning of the paper, cyber conflict is attractive. It is attractive to criminal elements, corpo­
rate elements, individuals, hacktivists, state actors, and other sundry non-state actors alike. Because of its low barrier to
entry, availability, and outsized impact, the oil industry must prepare for sustained future conflict in this realm.
34