5. Attribution to Iranian APT Groups
The Fox Kitten campaign is a continuous campaign operated, with high probability, by statesponsored Iranian APT groups whose purpose is espionage against numerous companies mainly in
the sectors of IT, defense, electricity, oil and gas and aviation companies.
This campaign was operated against companies in Israel, USA, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Kuwait, UAE,
Australia, France, Poland, Germany, Finland, Hungary, Italy and Austria, in two main attack waves.
Following is a map that summarizes the countries where we have identified the targets of the
campaign. The main targets, where we saw high activity, are marked with red (Israel, US, and the Gulf
countries), while the rest are marked with orange.
The attribution of the campaign to Iranian offensive groups is based on several characteristics,
including reuse of an Iranian attack infrastructure, parts of which were revealed and marked in the
past; based on previous intelligence reports; strings in Persian found in code pieces.
During our analysis, we have identified, with medium-high confidence, connections to the APT34
group, also called OilRig, based on overlaps with an offensive infrastructure from 2017, widespread use
of webshells, and similar victim profile.
Through cooperation with Dragos, we have identified, with medium confidence, a connection between
this campaign and the Iranian attack group APT33, also called Elfin. We didn’t identify destructive
malware in this campaign. Also, in this campaign, similar to the Dustman [16] malware event, which is
considered a variant of the ZeroCleare [17] destructive malware, vulnerabilities were exploited in VPN
services such as Pulse Secure Connect, Fortinet VPN, and Palo Alto Networks’ Global Protect. IBM has
attributed the ZeroCleare distribution campaign to APT34 with an additional Iranian group known for
16 zdnet.com/article/new-iranian-data-wiper-malware-hits-bapco-bahrains-national-oil-company/
17 ibm.com/downloads/cas/OAJ4VZNJ
scribd.com/document/442225568/Saudi-Arabia-CNA-report

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
31 | P a g e
CAN capabilities, and we assess that this means APT33. We have also found an overlap, with medium
confidence and based on the MITRE ATT&CK model, between the Fox Kitten campaign and the TTPs
of APT39, also called Chafer, which is a sub-group of APT34.
In this chapter, we will try to propose explanations to our assessment regards the Iranian groups’
standing behind this infrastructure.
The connection to APT34:
The first wave of attacks in the Fox Kitten campaign took place in November-December 2017, while the
second wave took place in October 2019. The Iranian offensive group APT34 (aka OilRig and
HelixKitten) has attacked in recent years companies in the IT, oil and gas, aviation, and security sectors,
while companies from the same sectors were attack in the Fox Kitten campaign as well. In the
widespread campaign of 2017, the group has tried to breach a group of Israeli IT companies [18] .
Moreover, in the campaign that we have revealed there is a reuse of a small part of the attack
infrastructures used by the group in 2017. Several companies which were attacked in the 2017
campaign, were attacked again in this campaign.
Another characteristic – while not indicative in itself – is the widespread use of webshells, which fits
the group’s past TTPs. In April-May 2019, a number of webshells belonging to OilRig were revealed
throughout the Middle East, most of which against companies in the Gulf and in Israel – in Israel, a
webshell-based attack was revealed in one of the country’s leading universities, while in the Gulf
several webshells were found in aviation companies and ministries [19] .
The connection to APT33:
Dragos, in a report from January 12 [th], 2020, revealed that this campaign, which they call “Parisite”, was
designed, amongst other things, to attack American electricity companies shortly after the demise of
Qassem Soleimani [20] . Dragos researchers mentioned a connection that they have found between the
“Parisite” campaign and the APT33 group, and emphasized the focus on IT companies, in a similar way
we did in our research in Israel. In our research we found overlaps between some of the files used in
the “Parisite” campaign and the files and tools used in the “Fox Kitten” campaign.
Cooperation between Iranian groups:
In this part, we will try to explain the connection between the APT34-APT33 cooperation and the “Fox
Kitten” campaign. In January 2020, IBM and the Saudi National Cybersecurity Authority published
reports on destructive malwares called “ZeroCleare” and “Dustman”, which were spread in the Middle
East and specifically in the Gulf. These malwares resemble the APT33-attributed Shamoon malware. In
IBM’s report it was mentioned that the attack was divided into two main parts – breach and access to
the network be APT34, and then distribution of a destructive capability by another Iranian group, which
we assess to be APT33. In the Saudi NCA report, it was mentioned that “Dustman” was initially
distributed by exploiting VPN vulnerabilities. Judging from the report’s recommendations regards the
products of Palo Alto, Pulse Secure, and Fortinet, it can be inferred that, like in the “Fox Kitten”
campaign, in the campaign revealed in the Gulf similar vulnerabilities were exploited.
18 clearskysec.com/oilrig/
19 misterch0c.blogspot.com/2019/04/apt34-oilrig-leak.html
20 https://www.wired.com/story/iran-apt33-us-electric-grid/

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
32 | P a g e
The cooperation between the groups, revealed in the IBM report, the VPN vulnerabilities’ exploitation,
and the overlap between files used in the “Parisite” campaign and “Fox Kitten” campaign lead us to
assess, with medium confidence, that the groups used a similar infrastructure in this campaign as well.
The connection to APT39:
During analysis, we have found, with medium confidence, a connection between “Fox Kitten” and the
APT39 group, also called Chafer and considered a sub-group of APT34. This connection is based on a
certain overlap in the tools and work methods used, based on the MITRE ATT&CK model, and based
on 2018-2019 reports by FireEye and Symantec [21] . The most apparent overlap in methods includes the
use of stolen VPN credentials, lateral movement through RDP, and exfiltration based on file
compression in ZIP or RAR formats (T1003, T1046, T1090, T1094, T1076, T1002).
In conclusion, we attribute the “Fox Kitten” campaign, with medium-high confidence, to the APT34
group, and with medium confidence to the APT33 and APT39 groups, and we assess that there is a
cooperation between the groups in infrastructure and possible beyond that. We assess this campaign’s
main goal to be intelligence collection on the targets and creating a supply-chain attack. In our
analysis, we have not identified distribution of destructive malware in the attacked organizations.
21 fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/01/apt39-iranian-cyber-espionage-group-focused-on-personal
information.html
symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/chafer-latest-attacks-reveal-heightened-ambitions

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
33 | P a g e