BOOSTWRITE Loader: Where You At?
BOOSTWRITE is a loader crafted to be launched via abuse of the DLL search order of
applications which load the legitimate ‘Dwrite.dll’ provided by the Microsoft DirectX Typography
Services. The application loads the ‘gdi’ library, which loads the ‘gdiplus’ library, which ultimately
loads ‘Dwrite’. Mandiant identified instances where BOOSTWRITE was placed on the file system
alongside the RDFClient binary to force the application to import DWriteCreateFactory from it
rather than the legitimate DWrite.dll.
Once loaded, DWrite.dll connects to a hard-coded IP and port from which it retrieves a
decryption key and initialization vector (IV) to decrypt two embedded payload DLLs. To
accomplish this task, the malware first generates a random file name to be used as a text log
under the current user's %TEMP% directory; this filename starts with ~rdf and is followed by a set
of random numbers. Next, the malware scans its own image to find the location of a 32-byte long
multi-XOR key which is used to decode data inside its body. Part of the decoded data is an IP
address and port which are used to retrieve the key and the IV for the decryption of the
embedded payloads. The encryption algorithm uses the ChaCha stream cipher with a 256-bit key
and 64-bit IV.
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/10/mahalo-fin7-responding-to-new-tools-and-techniques.html 1/9
10/11/2019 Mahalo FIN7: Responding to the Criminal Operators’ New Tools and Techniques | FireEye Inc
Once the key and the IV are downloaded the malware decrypts the embedded payloads and
performs sanity checks on the results. The payloads are expected to be PE32.DLLs which, if the
tests pass, are loaded into memory without touching the filesystem.
The malware logs various plaintext messages to the previously created logfile
%TEMP%\~rds which are indicative of the loader’s execution progress. An
example of the file content is shown in Figure 1:
Loading...
Starting...
Init OK
Key OK
Data: 4606941
HS: 20
K:[32] V:[8]
DCnt: 732642317(ERR)
Figure 1: BOOSTWRITE log file
Before exiting, the malware resolves the location of the benign DWrite.dll library and passes the
execution control to its DWriteCreateFactory method.
The malware decrypts and loads two payload DLLs. One of the DLLs is an instance of the
CARBANAK backdoor; the other DLL is a tool tracked by FireEye as RDFSNIFFER which allows
an attacker to hijack instances of the NCR Aloha Command Center Client application and interact
with victim systems via existing legitimate 2FA sessions.