Previous Cyberespionage
EFF first identified elements of this infrastructure in its August 2016 [4] report on Operation
Manul. The report details a series of attacks targeting journalists and political activists
critical of Kazakhstan’s authoritarian government, along with their family members,
lawyers, and associates. EFF’s research noted references to Android components found
on the infrastructure; however, no samples had been discovered at the time of the
report’s release. Lookout has since acquired Android samples used by Dark Caracal that
belong to what Lookout researchers have named the Pallas malware family.
Citizen Lab previously flagged the General Directorate of General Security in a 2015
report as one of two Lebanese government organizations using the FinFisher spyware [5] .
The report cites evidence showing that the GDGS, along with other state actors around
the world, had active campaigns using FinFisher infrastructure and tools. However, the
report did not specify whether the spyware used was the mobile version of FinFisher.
Our investigation resulted in the discovery of at least one FinFisher implant for Android,
which corroborates Citizen Lab’s previous research. The sample’s hash is provided in
the appendix of this report. We also uncovered new desktop surveillance software
developed potentially by Dark Caracal themselves, a developer associated with the
GDGS, or a private contractor group.
The intent of bringing forth these findings is to reveal newly discovered evidence of a new
nation-state actor compromising the devices of military personnel, enterprises, medical
professionals, activists, journalists, lawyers, and educational institutions. Our review and
disclosure of this matter follows industry practices, including sharing our findings with
appropriate government authorities, industry partners and the public at large.
4
https://www.eff.org/files/2016/08/03/i-got-a-letter-from-the-government.pdf
5
https://citizenlab.ca/2015/10/mapping-finfishers-continuing-proliferation/
SECURITY RESEARCH REPORT
4