Glossary of Technical Terms
Backbone – A primary transit network or series of networks, designed to carry
data between different local area networks. A backbone generally has greater
data carrying capacity, or “bandwidth”, than the networks connected to it. The
Internet Backbone is the interconnection of high-speed networks, primarily
government, commercial telecommunications and academic networks that
route data for public Internet users.
Backdoor – A method of regaining remote control of a victim’s computer by
reconfiguring installed legitimate software or the installation of a specialized
program designed to allow access under attacker-defined conditions. Trojan
horse programs and rootkits often contain backdoor components.
Black hat - A computer hacker who is intent on causing damage or taking other
unauthorized or illegal actions against a victim.
C2 – Command and control. The term, in the context of computer network
operations, often describes a communications method or a component thereof
to maintain remote control of an operational asset, such as a compromised
computer.
Coder – A computer programmer or one who writes computer programming
language code.
Computer Network Attack (CNA) – Actions taken through the use of computer
networks to disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy information resident in
computers and computer networks, or the computers and networks themselves.
(See: http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/new_pubs/jp3_13.pdf).
Computer network defense (CND) – Actions taken through the use of computer
networks to protect, monitor, analyze, detect and respond to unauthorized
activity within information systems and computer networks (See:
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/new_pubs/jp3_13.pdf).
Computer network exploitation (CNE) – Enabling operations and intelligence
collection capabilities conducted through the use of computer networks to
gather data from target or adversary automated information systems or
networks (See: http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/new_pubs/jp3_13.pdf).
Computer network operations (CNO) - Comprised of computer network attack,
computer network defense, and related computer network exploitation enabling
operations (See http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/new_pubs/jp3_13.pdf).
76
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Distributed denial of service (DDoS) – A class of attacks that results in the
exhaustion of computing or communications resources by engaging many
intermediate computers to simultaneously attack one victim. These
intermediate attack systems are often previously compromised and under the
control of the attacker.
Electronic Warfare (EW) – Any military action involving the use of
electromagnetic and directed energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum or
to attack the enemy. The three major subdivisions within electronic warfare
are: electronic attack, electronic protection, and electronic warfare support.
File Transfer Protocol (FTP) - A standard Internet protocol implemented in FTP
server and client software, including most web browsers. It is used to “transfer
data reliably and efficiently.” http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc959.txt
Hacker – An individual who uses computer technology in ways not originally
intended by the vendor. Commonly the term is applied to people who attack
others using computers.
For the purposes of this discussion, hackers are subdivided as follows:
Script kiddies: Unskilled attackers who do not have the ability to discover new
vulnerabilities or write exploit code, and are dependent on the research and
tools from others. Their goal is achievement. Their sub-goals are to gain
access and deface web pages.

Worm and virus writers: Attackers who write the propagation code used in the
worms and viruses but not typically the exploit code used to penetrate the
systems infected. Their goal is notoriety. Their sub-goals are to cause
disruption of networks and attached computer systems.

Security researchers and white hat operators: This group has two subcategories: bug hunters and exploit coders. Their goal is profit. Their subgoals are to improve security and achieve recognition with an exploit.

Professional hacker-black hat: Individuals who get paid to write exploits or
actually penetrate networks; this group also falls into the same two sub
                                              categories as above. Their goal is also profit (See: http://www.us
cert.gov/control_systems/csthreats.html).

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) – The message format and exchange
standard used by web browsers and web servers.
77
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Hacktivism – Computer hacking intended to communicate a social or political
message, or to support the position of a political or ideological group. Hactivism
activities include data theft, website defacement, denial of service, redirects
and others.
Hacktivist – An attacker who practices hacktivism.
INFOCON - Information Operations Condition (INFOCON) classifications mirror
Defense Conditions (DEFCON) Alert System and are a uniform system of five
progressive readiness conditions– INFOCON 5 thru INFOCON 1 with
INFOCON 5 being a level of normal readiness and INFOCON 1 a level of
maximum readiness, implemented because of severe threat or attack. As the
INFOCON levels increase, elements of network functionality or services
deemed lower priority or at high risk of attack may be temporarily suspended.
Thus, CNA tools that work during a normal state of readiness may be rendered
ineffective if the services or applications they exploit are turned off.
Information Warfare (IW) – Actions taken to achieve information superiority by
affecting adversary information, information-based processes, information
systems, and computer-based networks while defending one’s own information,
information-based processes, information systems, and computer-based
=
networks (See: http://www.jpeocbd.osd.mil/packs/DocHandler.ashx?DocId 3712)
Intrusion Detection System (IDS) – A computer or network monitoring system
that matches observations against patterns of known or suspected
unauthorized activity.
Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) – An inline system or software that applies
IDS-style logic and approves or rejects network traffic, program and data
access, hardware use, etc.
Network Behavioral Analysis (NBA) – An intrusion detection system that models
network traffic and alerts on violations of known acceptable activity. Rules can
include data volume, time of day, traffic rate, communication partners, content,
and other elements.
NIPRNET – Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network. The unclassified
network of the US Department of Defense which provides Internet access as
well as interconnectivity to DoD users and facilities.
NTLM - A Microsoft authentication protocol that uses cryptographic hash
                                                representations of account passwords. (See: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en

us/library/aa378749(VS.85).aspx)
78
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
PDF – File format and filename extension for Adobe Portable Document Format
documents.
Phishing – The practice of enticing a victim to visit a website or other online
resource with the intention of stealing credentials, financial information such as
bank accounts, or credit card numbers. Phishing attacks generally involve an
email claiming to come from a trusted entity such as a bank or ecommerce
vendor, with a link to a website and the instructions to click the link and take
actions once at the website.
RAR or Roshal Archive - A compressed file format similar in use to the more
popular ZIP format. It is used to conserve storage and network resources and
simplifies the movement of large sets of files. Optional encryption is available
using the NIST Advanced Encryption Standard algorithm. Just as ZIP archives
are created with software such as WinZip (http://www.winzip.com) and zip
(http://www.info-zip.org), RAR archives are created with WinRar and RAR
(http://www.rarlab.com)
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) - The communication protocol used to provide
remote viewing and control of Microsoft Windows computers and applications.
                                       For additional information (See http://msdn.microsoft.com/en

us/library/aa383015(VS.85).aspx).
Rootkit - A piece of software that can be installed and hidden on the victim
computer without the user’s knowledge. It may be included in a larger software
package or installed by an attacker who has been able to take advantage of
vulnerability on the victim machine. Rootkits are not necessarily malicious, but
they may hide malicious activities. Attackers may be able to access information,
monitor user actions, modify programs, or perform other functions on the
                                        targeted computer without being detected (See: http://www.us

cert.gov/cas/tips/ST06-001.html).
Security Event and Information Management (SEIM) – Centralized collection
and management of security event records from many different systems such
as firewalls, IDS/IPS, antivirus software, authentication systems, etc. SEIMs
may provide complex multifactor rules to alert on patterns of behavior not easily
identifiable by one of the component systems alone.
Spearphishing – A targeted phishing attack against a select group of victims,
usually belonging to a single company, school, industry, etc. “Spearphishing” is
commonly used to refer to any targeted email attack, not limited to phishing.
79
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Trojan horse - An apparently useful program containing hidden functions that can
exploit the privileges of the user (running the program), with a resulting security
threat. A Trojan horse does things that the program user did not intend. Trojan
horses rely on users to install them, or they can be installed by intruders who
have gained unauthorized access by other means. Then, an intruder
attempting to subvert a system using a Trojan horse relies on other users
                                                  running the Trojan horse to be successful (See: www.cert.org/advisories/CA

  1999 02.html).

Tunneling - A technique to encapsulate one communication data stream inside of
another, in order to extend the advantages of the latter to the former. Attackers
will often tunnel a network protocol that would not be allowed to cross network
boundaries inside of another that is allowed, defeating perimeter defenses
(See: http://www.its.bldrdoc.gov/projects/devglossary/_tunneling.html).
Two-factor Authentication (T-FA) - Existing authentication methodologies involve
three basic “factors”:
Something the user knows (e.g., password, PIN);
Something the user has (e.g., ATM card, smart card); and
Something the user is (e.g., biometric characteristic, such as a fingerprint).
T-FA requires that a user present two of the three possible factors to the
authentication mechanism. A known flaw in some T-FA systems is the server
storage of a hash representation of the credentials contained on the smart card
or token. With this in hand, the attacker can replay that data to the
authentication system; in this case, that of the proxy server, without needing the
physical card or token (See:
http://www.ffiec.gov/pdf/authentication_guidance.pdf).
USPACOM – United States Pacific Command is one of six Unified Combatant
Commands of the United States Armed Forces with an area of responsibility
encompassing all territory from the US West Coast to the western border of
India, and from Antarctica to the North Pole. The command presently has
approximately 325,000 US service personnel.
USTRANSCOM - United States Transportation Command provides intermodal
transportation across the spectrum of military operations. USTRANSCOM is
comprised of three component commands -- the Air Force's Air Mobility
Command, the Navy's Military Sealift Command, and the Army's Military
Surface Deployment and Distribution Command.
Zero day exploit – An attack against a software vulnerability that has not yet been
addressed by the software maintainers. These attacks are difficult to defend
80
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
against as they are often undisclosed by the vendor until a fix is available,
leaving victims unaware of the exposure.
81
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation