Glossary
0day - is an exploit for which there is no fix from the software vendor available.
Botnet - refers to a collection of compromised networked computers that can be controlled remotely by an attacker.
Beacon / beaconing / check in - attempts by a compromised computer to connect to a command and control server.
Blackhat - generally refers to a person who attempts to compromise information technology systems or networks for malicious purposes.
Cloud computing - is an emerging computing paradigm that generally refers to systems that enable network devices to access data,
services, and applications on-demand.
Command and control server - refers to the network server that sends commands to compromised computers in a botnet.
DNS ( domain name system ) - is a hierarchical naming system for computers, services, or any resource participating in the Internet.
DoS Attack (denial of service attack) - is an attempt to prevent users from accessing a specific computer resource, such as a Web site.
DDoS, (distributed denial of service attacks) usually involve overwhelming the targeted computer with requests so that it is no longer
able to communicate with its intended users.
HTTP ( Hypertext Transfer Protocol ) - is a set of standards for exchanging text, images, sound and video by means of the Internet.
IP address ( Internet protocol address ) - is a numerical identification assigned to devices participating in a computer network utlizing the
Internet protocol.
Malware ( malicious software ) - refers to software designed to carry out a malicious purpose. Varieties of malware include computer
viruses, worms, trojan horses, and spyware.
OHHDL - Office of His Holiness the Dalai Lama.
Phishing - an attack in which an attacker attempts to obtain sensitive information from an individual by masquerading as a trusted third
party. A common example of such an attack is a user receiving an email from a source that appears to be a trustworthy entity, such as
the user’s bank. Such emails often request the user to visit a website that appears to be the login page of a service they use, such as
online banking, and enter their username and password, which is then collected by the attackers and used for malicious purposes.
PRC - People’s Republic of China.
Sinkhole - Operating domain names formerly used as command and control servers.
Spear phishing - is a targeted form of phishing in which a victim is typically sent an email that appears to be from an individual or
organization they know. Usually the content of the email includes information that is relevant to the victim and includes a malicious file
attachment or link that when opened excecutes malicious code on the victim’s computer.
RiR ( Regional Internet Registry ) - is an organization that manages the allocation and registration of Internet number resources within a
specific geographic region.
TGIE - Tibetan Government in Exile.
TPIE - Tibetan Parliament in Exile.
Tor - is an anonymity system that defends users from traffic analysis attacks in which attackers attempt to monitor users’ online
behaviour.
JR03-2010 Shadows in the Cloud - GLOSSARY 52
Web 2.0 - typically refers to Web-based applications and services that enable user participation, collaboration, and data sharing.
WHOIS - is a public database of all domain name registrations, which provides information on individuals who register domain names.
Whitehat - generally refers to a person who attempts to infiltrate information technology systems or networks in order to expose weakness
so they can be corrected by the system’s owners. Also known as an ethical hacker.