How we decrypted the files
https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/analytics/pt-esc-threat-intelligence/incident-response-polar-ransomware-apt27/ 16/23
11/30/2020 Investigation with a twist: an accidental APT attack and averted data destruction
Readers following the chain of encryption steps have likely noticed that the security of this
whole encryption system depends on what we have called the base encryption key. Its value
is encrypted with RSA-1024 and placed in the ransom demand. Currently, there are no
methods that are both cheap and fast for factoring a key of such size. So we tried another
tactic.
Remember that the base key is generated by taking eight random characters from the
alphabet quoted earlier. Here is how the implementation works:
The Random function is called once, without any arguments. This call returns a random
number, the seed for pseudorandom generation of which is taken from the value of the
Environment.TickCount variable. This variable is 4 bytes and stores the number of
milliseconds since the operating system started.
So to decode the files, all we need to know is the uptime (how long the computer has been
turned on) as of when the ransomware ran. But how simple is it to calculate?
Most of the affected computers had not only been disconnected from the corporate network,
but turned off for analysis of the hard drive contents. Due to this, the uptime of the
computers could not be known. The operating system logs contain timestamps for shutdown
and power on. But in this case, the ransomware destroys these logs twice. So we were unable
to find any clues pointing at possible values of uptime on the affected computers themselves.
Fortunately, however, SCCM was used on the client infrastructure, with client-side agents
running on all the encrypted computers. The information we needed was stored centrally and
had not been tampered with: all we needed was some trial-and-error to choose the right
values.
https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/analytics/pt-esc-threat-intelligence/incident-response-polar-ransomware-apt27/ 17/23
11/30/2020 Investigation with a twist: an accidental APT attack and averted data destruction
Now that we had relatively precise uptime values, we needed to determine when the
ransomware had run. Remember that at the end, the malware deletes the intermediate DLL
library and encrypted ransomware, but not the legitimate executable file whose process is
used for performing the malicious actions. In other words, the time at which this file
appeared on the system should be the approximate time when the ransomware ran, to within
several seconds. We succeeded in bruteforcing the exact value of the base encryption key in
about a minute on an ordinary workstation (on the order of a few tens of thousands of
iterations). We could then decrypt the remaining files. In a few cases, we had a tougher time
bruteforcing the key at first. The reason was that the timezones had been set incorrectly.
With this realization, we were able to conquer this issue as well.