The Scale of the Operation
Most authorities attribute responsibility for cyber attacks and intelligence gathering to the
Third Department of the PLA (3PLA) and accept that the Second Department (2PLA) may
also have a role to play. Accurate figures for the size of these Departments are not publicly
available, but the more success the attackers have, the more funding they are likely to get
for further attacks. Other branches of the military may then see the possibility for increased
funding and political glory by competing in the same space. One very thorough report by
Project 2049 [15], a group who analyse the Asian security landscape among other topics,
details the Third Department of the PLA and outlines their broader activities and structure.
Their role is primarily SIGINT aimed at intercepting radio, telecoms and email
communications and reporting the content as intelligence. The report contains a figure
(though they make clear this is estimated) of 130,000 people being part of the 3PLA. The
2PLA is concerned with Human Intelligence (HUMINT) as well as SIGINT to support its military
intelligence mission.
So trying to work out how many people are involved in this process is only ever going to be
based on educated guesswork. If we look simply at the effort in the 3PLA, put aside all other
groups for now and take the figure of 130,000 as true, there is a very large pool of available
personnel who are able to support cyber operations. However, as we have stated above,
the 3PLA has a remit broader than simply cyber and other areas are far more established.
Numbers working in the requirements capture and planning area are probably in the low
hundreds. Trying to gauge the size of the collection effort is difficult and requires a large
margin of error. But it is fair to assume that several hundred people could do the target
development work; around a hundred dedicated specialists could work on malware
development (with the Chinese hacking community providing new tools at regular
intervals); perhaps one or two thousand low level operators (the ‘B’ team) supported by
another few hundred with more advanced skills (the ‘A’ team) who look after the most
sensitive intrusions; an infrastructure team of a few dozen; and an operational security team
of a few dozen more.
Then come the processing and analysis experts: potentially a pool of several thousand
specialists able to read and write in a wide variety of languages; hundreds if not thousands
of specialists in all of the fields of information being stolen – politics, economics, engineering,
IT, science, etc; hundreds of report writers; dozens of people processing data; and dozens
more administering the whole process.
If these very rough figures are anywhere close to reality, at least 7,000 people are directly
involved in hacking foreign computer networks for the Chinese military and processing the
output of those attacks. Potentially many thousands more see the reporting and are aware
of the sorts of results generated by these operations.
15 http://project2049.net/documents/pla_third_department_sigint_cyber_stokes_lin_hsiao.pdf
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 17 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data