CactusPete APT group’s updated Bisonal backdoor
securelist.com /cactuspete-apt-groups-updated-bisonal-backdoor/97962
Konstantin Zykov
CactusPete (also known as Karma Panda or Tonto Team) is an APT group that has been
publicly known since at least 2013. Some of the group’s activities have been previously
described in public by multiple sources. We have been investigating and privately
reporting on this group’s activity for years as well. Historically, their activity has been
focused on military, diplomatic and infrastructure targets in Asia and Eastern Europe.
This is also true of the group’s latest activities.
A new CactusPete campaign, spotted at the end of February 2020 by Kaspersky, shows
that the group’s favored types of target remain the same. The victims of the new variant of
the Bisonal backdoor, according to our telemetry, were from financial and military sectors
located in Eastern Europe. Our research started from only one sample, but by using the
Kaspersky Threat Attribution Engine (KTAE) we found 300+ almost identical samples.
All of them appeared between March 2019 and April 2020. This underlines the speed of
CactusPete’s development – more than 20 samples per month. The target location forced
the group to use a hardcoded Cyrillic codepage during string manipulations. This is
important, for example, during remote shell functionality, to correctly handle the Cyrillic
output from executed commands.
The method of malware distribution for the new campaign remains unknown, but
previous campaigns indicate that it’s their usual way of distributing malware. The
attackers’ preferred way to deliver malware is spear-phishing messages with “magic”
attachments. The attachments never contain zero-day exploits, but they do include
recently discovered and patched vulnerabilities, or any other crafty approaches that might
help them deliver the payload. Running these attachments leads to infection.
Once the malware starts it tries to reach a hardcoded C2. The communication takes place
using the unmodified HTTP-based protocol, the request and response body are RC4encrypted, and the encryption key is also hardcoded into the sample. As the result of the
RC4 encryption may contain binary data, the malware additionally encodes it in BASE64,
to match the HTTP specification.
1 http://C2_DOMAIN_IP/chapter1/user.html/BASE64_RC4_ENCRYPTED_BODY
The handshake consists of several steps: initial request, victim network details and a more
detailed victim information request. This is the complete list of victim specific
information that is sent to the C2 during the handshake steps:
Hostname, IP and MAC address;
Windows version;
Time set on infected host;
https://securelist.com/cactuspete-apt-groups-updated-bisonal-backdoor/97962/ 1/4
8/14/2020 CactusPete APT group’s updated Bisonal backdoor | Securelist
Flags that indicates if the malware was executed on VMware environment;
Proxy usage flag;
System default CodePage Identifier;
After the handshake has been completed, the backdoor waits for a command, periodically
pinging the C2 server. The response body from the C2 ping might hold the command and
parameters (optionally). The updated Bisonal backdoor version maintains functionality
similar to past backdoors built from the same codebase:
Execute a remote shell;
Silently start a program on a victim host;
Retrieve a list of processes from the victim host;
Terminate any process;
Upload/Download/Delete files to/from victim host;
Retrieve a list of available drives from the victim host;
Retrieve a filelist of a specified folder from the victim host;
This is what it looks like in code.
Screenshot of the C2 command handling subroutine
This set of remote commands helps the attackers study the victim environment for lateral
movement and deeper access to the target organization. The group continues to push
various custom Mimikatz variants and keyloggers for credential harvesting purposes,
along with privilege escalation malware.