2.2 Evil Corp
Nevertheless, despite these difficulties, we feel that we can assert the following with high
confidence, due to our in depth tracking of this group as it posed a significant threat to
our clients. Evil Corp has been operating the Dridex malware since July 2014 and
provided access to several groups and individual threat actors. However, towards the end
of 2017 Evil Corp became smaller and used Dridex infections almost exclusively for
targeted ransomware campaigns by deploying BitPaymer . The majority of victims were
in North America (mainly USA) with a smaller number in Western Europe and instances
outside of these regions being just scattered, individual cases. During 2018, Evil Corp had
a short lived partnership with TheTrick group; specifically, leasing out access to
BitPaymer for a while, prior to their use of Ryuk.
In 2019 a fork of BitPaymer usually referred to as DoppelPaymer appeared, although this
was ransomware as a service and thus was not the same business model. We have
observed some cooperation between the two groups, but as yet can draw no definitive
conclusions as to the current relationship between these two threat actor groups.
After the unsealing of indictments by the US Department of Justice and actions against
Evil Corp as group by the US Treasury Department, we detected a short period of
inactivity from Evil Corp until January 2020. However, since January 2020 activity has
resumed as usual, with victims appearing in the same regions as before. It is possible,
https://research.nccgroup.com/2020/06/23/wastedlocker-a-new-ransomware-variant-developed-by-the-evil-corp-group/ 2/21
6/30/2020 WastedLocker: A New Ransomware Variant Developed By The Evil Corp Group – NCC Group Research
however, that this was primarily a strategic move to suggest to the public that Evil Corp
was still active as, from around the middle of March 2020, we failed to observe much
activity from them in terms of BitPaymer deployments. Of course, this period coincided
with the lockdowns due to the COVID19 pandemic.
The development of new malware takes time and it is probable that they had already
started the development of new techniques and malware. Early indications that this work
was underway included the use of a variant of Gozi we refer to as Gozi ISFB 2 variant. It is
thought that this variant is intended as a replacement for Dridex botnet 501 as one of the
persistent components on a target network. Similarly, a customized version of the
CobaltStrike loader has been observed, possibly intended as a replacement for the Empire
PowerShell framework previously used.
The group has access to highly skilled exploit and software developers capable of
bypassing network defences on all different levels. The group seems to put a lot of effort
into bypassing endpoint protection products; this observation is based on the fact that
when a certain version of their malware is detected on victim networks the group is back
with an undetected version and able to continue after just a short time. This shows the
importance of victims fully understanding each incident that happens. That is, detection
or blocking of a single element from the more advanced criminal actors does not mean
they have been defeated.
The lengths Evil Corp goes through in order to bypass endpoint protection tools is
demonstrated by the fact that they abused a victim’s email so they could pose as a
legitimate potential client to a vendor and request a trial license for a popular endpoint
protection product that is not commonly available.
It appears the group regularly finds innovative but practical approaches to bypass
detection in victim networks based on their practical experience gained throughout the
years. They also demonstrate patience and persistence . In one case, they successfully
compromised a target over 6 months after their initial failure to obtain privileged access.
They also display attention to detail by, for example, ensuring that they obtain the
passwords to disable security tools on a network prior to deploying the ransomware.