Command & Control
The involved malwares connect to external hosts controlled by the attackers. These belong to
various DynDNS services, and at the time of writing resolve to IP addresses located with hosting
services in the US.
Samples in yellow connecting to C&C hosts (green). All are digitally signed and connected
through the blue certificate node in the middle.
This is where the trail could have ended. However, there are still clues to look at – for example,
what other executables connect to these C&C hosts. This time, digging into our Malware
Analyzer G2 (MAG2) databases shows that there is more malware talking to this infrastructure,
and these bots again connect to more C&C domains. These new malwares are also
predominantly XtremeRats. However, they have been in circulation for a longer time – all the
way back to October 2011 . I think it is logical to assume that all these have been part of a
medium/large surveillance operation.
©Norman, November 2012 12
When updated with this information the plot now looks like this:
Same as previous illustration, where new unsigned samples are shown to be related through the
usage of the same C&C infrastructure.Colours have changed – now the certificate is green, the
C&C servers are yellow, the samples are blue, while IP addresses are purple. These IP addresses
can be considered examples – they change regularly.
Several of these domains appear to be hosted together. For example (at the time of writing):
108.171.108.190 is pointed to by may2008.dyndns.info, menu.dyndns.biz, flashsoft.no-ip.biz,
monagameel.chickenkiller.com, powerhost.zapto.org
108.171.124.13 is pointed to by helpme.no-ip.biz, mjed10.no-ip.info
69.80.101.244 is pointed to by good.zapto.org, hint.zapto.org, hint1.zapto.org, natco1.no-ip.net,
natco2.no-ip.net, natco3.no-ip.net, natco4.no-ip.net, loading.myftp.org, skype.servemp3.com,
test.cable-modem.org
These addresses tend to change. Typically, every couple of days a new IP configuration is
introduced for some boxes, while others may remain static – such as the host lokia.mine.nu,
which has resolved to 69.80.107.129 since we started examining the case.
As mentioned, the IP addresses in use have belonged to mostly US-based hosting services…at
least recently.
©Norman, November 2012 13
If we go further back in time (towards spring of 2012) most of the domains used resolved to IP
addresses in the range 188.161.*. This range is located in Gaza and belongs to a provider
headquartered in Ramallah in the West Bank:
Palestinian Territory, Occupied Gaza Palestine Telecommunications Company (paltel), ASN:
AS12975
We have also to a lesser extent seen IP addresses in use belonging to another Paltel division:
Palestinian Territory, Occupied Gaza Hadara Technologies Private Shareholding Company,
ASN: AS15975
What is behind these IP addresses is hard to establish. It is possible that they are hacked boxes,
and as such not give much valid information. If that were the case, one might have expected
greater IP range and geographical distribution, but nothing is certain.
Our databases also show that there is much more malware talking to these providers through
many other DynDNS domains. Some of these are probably also related to this case, but as we
have no evidence linking the cases, these malwares have not been included in this paper. It is
however interesting to note the hostnames some of these connect to – like “terroristttt.no
ip.biz”.
©Norman, November 2012 14