EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

A new threat actor SentinelLabs tracks as Agrius was observed operating in

Israel starting in 2020.

Initially engaged in espionage activity, Agrius deployed a set of destructive

wiper attacks against Israeli targets, masquerading the activity as
ransomware attacks.

The attacks were carried out using DEADWOOD (aka Detbosit), a wiper with

unconfirmed links to an Iranian threat group.

Agrius actors also dropped a novel wiper named ‘Apostle’ and a custom .NET

backdoor called ‘IPsec Helper’.

Later intrusions carried out by Agrius revealed they kept maintaining and

improving Apostle, turning it into a fully functional ransomware.
S e n t i n e l L a b s Te a m
A new threat actor we track as Agrius was observed operating in Israel in 2020.
While first engaged in espionage activity, Agrius attackers shifted to extorting
targets, claiming they stole and encrypted their data. Their data, however, could
not be retrieved for any ransom - as it was destroyed in a wiping attack.
An analysis of what at first sight appeared to be a ransomware attack revealed new variants of
wipers that were deployed in a set of destructive attacks against Israeli targets. The operators
behind the attacks intentionally masked their activity as ransomware attacks, an uncommon
behavior for financially motivated groups. Considering this and the nature of the known targets,
we assess this is a nation-sponsored threat group.
One of the wipers used in the attack, dubbed ‘Apostle’, was later turned into a fully functional
ransomware, replacing its wiper functionalities. The message inside it suggests it was used to
target a critical, nation-owned facility in the United Arab Emirates. The similarity to its wiper
version, as well as the nature of the target in the context of regional disputes, leads us to believe
that the operators behind it are utilizing ransomware for its disruptive capabilities.
The usage of ransomware as a disruptive tool is usually hard to prove, as it is difficult to determine a
threat actor’s intentions. Analysis of the Apostle malware provides a rare insight into such attacks,
drawing a clear line between what began as a wiper malware to a fully operational ransomware.
Based on technical analysis of the tools and attack infrastructure, we assess with medium
confidence that the attacks were carried out by a threat group affiliated with Iran. While some
links to known Iranian actors were observed, the set of TTPs and tools appear to be unique to this
set of activities. SentinelLabs tracks this threat actor as Agrius.