Enterprise resilience: The new reality
The circumstances of the extended COVID-19
pandemic, and the corporate response to it,
present an opportunity to forge resilience into the
enterprise. We must fold the lessons we’ve learned—
and the various strategies that we deployed to
survive the pandemic—into our broader
enterprise vision.
To some degree, the enterprise response to
COVID-19 changed our operational procedures as
well as the very vocabulary that we use to describe
the reactive measures and lessons learned. Terms
such as “extended security boundary,” “pandemic
resilience,” and “human infrastructure” are now the
subject of executive analyses and board briefings
around the globe. This new vocabulary highlights
the emergence of critical areas of resilience that
enterprises traditionally didn’t scrutinize.
Based on measures that have been put into place
to improve our security posture and incorporate the
lessons learned since the outbreak of COVID-19,
three critical areas have arisen to guide the drive
toward enterprise resilience. All three are anchored
in planning for the unanticipated.
Critical area 3
Validating the resilience of the human
infrastructure
With such a large percentage of the workforce
physically distant from management and other
coworkers, the potential of new risks around
workforce attrition, disengagement, and divestment
need to be examined in this new context. Corporate
human resource departments are shifting their focus
from discussion of work-life balance to work-life
integration. A key takeaway in the area of human
infrastructure is to embed practices that measure
the sustainability of the human capital that the
enterprise has invested in, including its workforce,
suppliers, partners, and customers.
These three critical areas can serve as the basis for
reinforcing enterprise strategy if their core constructs
are already included in the vision. If they aren’t, they
can be readily dovetailed into the vision and strategy
as learnings from the COVID-19 pandemic and the
response to it, in order to demonstrate and ensure
enterprise resilience.
Go to Actionable Learnings
Learn more: The future of business resilience
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 71
Critical area 1
Extending the enterprise security boundary
beyond the on-site perimeter
The unanticipated shift of such a large percentage of
the workforce to a remote work setting hasn’t only
transitioned work, data, and intellectual property
from enterprise-managed facilities to workers’
homes, but it has also extended the security
boundary beyond the enterprise facility’s perimeter.
Security teams must now worry about the increased
risk of exfiltration or leakage of sensitive data. They
must be prepared to respond to breaches in the
extended perimeters of the remote workforce’s
kitchens and home offices. They must ensure
the security of assets, services, and infrastructure
that extend beyond the corporate perimeter, and
possibly even beyond the management and control
of corporate policy. They must ensure the privacy
and confidentiality of data and any associated data
subject rights, and they must protect corporate
intellectual property that’s distributed across
potentially less secure home internet connections
and varying grades of Wi-Fi systems and
communication channels.
The strategies to support an extended security
boundary include expanding VPN capabilities
to implementing Zero Trust networking with
capabilities such as stronger identity management,
device management and device health, alternate
access for unmanaged devices, stronger network
segmentation and isolation of resources, and checks
on application health.
Critical area 2
Prioritizing resilient performance
Just as the pandemic challenged health officials
to find ways of protecting public safety, its
economic implications stretched corporate leaders
to contemplate how to sustain productivity
through the massive lift-and-shift exercise where
workloads and workforces moved away from their
facilities. To better understand what needed to
be moved, corporations identified critical services
and processes to ensure they weren’t abandoned
by personnel who needed on-site or break-glass
access—in other words, a real-time demonstration
of enterprise preparedness. In continuing to learn
from this exercise in preparedness, enterprises
need to take a closer look at the productivity and
performance of critical services and processes.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY