Outline of the preliminary data gathering operation and attacks on Ethiopian Airlines and Malaysia Airlines

Preparation sessions – learning about Iranian airlines operating from Iranian airports. This included learning

about Operational Technologies (OT) used by the airlines and airports.


Identifying the Database (DB) admins for the targeted airlines.


Identifying the admins of various systems exposed to the internet.


Breaching the targeted airlines network and attempting to compromise additional systems.


Once within the network, obtaining admins' passwords.


Identifying the DC.


Exfiltrating the DC's logs.


Exfiltrating the Events Security logs.


Identifying various systems' IP addresses.


Breaching critical servers via brute force techniques.


Assessing if and how it is possible to breach the DB by analyzing the files (note – it is unclear what files the


document is referring to).

Accessing the DB.

A specific clause to Malaysian Airlines – receiving the dump


Exfiltrating the data.


Compromising or creating Web servers to receive the data.


Collaborating with other teams in order to analyze the data.


Attack on AirAsia
First stage – breaching their network.


Obtaining the company's IP addresses.


Conducting penetration tests on their network.


Gathering a list of the all of the company's website as well as any other website linked to the company, and


then conducting on them penetration tests.

Breaching any vulnerable asset.

Second stage – obtaining sensitive data.
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
The content of the document is solely for internal use. Distributing the report outside of recipient organization is not permitted.
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 3 of 14


Obtaining usernames and passwords of employees.


Levering compromised employee accounts to evaluate the systems admins.


Attack on Philippine Airlines


Using a VPN to access the company's internal network.


Obtaining usernames and passwords for the company's work stations, servers, and email accounts.


Evaluating the system admins and assets to determine whether it is possible and how to execute the attack.


Leveraging the compromised data from the breached systems and DBs.


Problems the attackers encountered


Robust anti-virus installed on critical systems.


Strong firewalls that prevented access to various ports.


The use of a local Microsoft Office365 email server. As a result, even after the attackers obtained usernames


and passwords they were unable to remotely login to them.

Network segmentation – the internal network was not connected to the external network.

Attack on Thai Airways

The attackers used a compromised email of a Fly Dubai employee to send phishing emails to other

employees. The email contained an attachment of a malicious Excel file with various flight lists.

This file was created by penetration team (likely Muddy Water). Out of the 40 recipiences 5 individuals

opened the email and infected their computers.

After they obtained these employees' usernames and passwords the attackers accessed two databases. The

first was an Oracle DB, while the other was an IBM DB2 database.
Attack on the Azerbaijani Department of Health


Locating vulnerable websites hosted on the governmental network.


Searching on Google for absolute address within the vulnerable websites.


Attempting to execute SQL injections on these sites. This appear to have been unsuccessful.


Creating shells on the databases.


Using a shell to send remote commands to compromised computers. This method was conducted via


Desktop Protocol (RDP).
Attack on the website – roshan.af
First stage – attempting to breach the network via a social engineering attack. This attack was unsuccessful as the
nobody opened the malicious file. Concurrently, breaching the Linux system used by the website and injecting a
shell. Note however that the Linux system had limited capabilities (it is unclear what the attackers meant by this).
After considerable efforts the attackers eventually were able to install a hydra system. Afterwards the attackers
executed a successful brute force attack on the SMB systems.
The attackers detail the most valuable type of data they were trying to obtain from the DB:


Email addresses of directors and other key individuals in the organization.


Types and version of the system used by the organization.


Network layouts.


© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
The content of the document is solely for internal use. Distributing the report outside of recipient organization is not permitted.
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 4 of 14


List of open ports.


List of active internal ports used by employees for purchases.


List of port used for communication. It is unclear what the attackers mean by this. Possibly ports used by


various chat programs.
Attack on Etihad Airways
The attack on the UAE airline was executed via RDP – CITRIX account. Once in the attackers gathered intelligence,
notably usernames and passwords.