Digital signature abuse
A lot of computer security software deployed today relies on integrity control of trusted executables. Digital
signature verification is one such method. In this attack, the attackers managed to get their code signed
with a certificate of a big vendor. How was that possible? We do not have definitive answers, but let us take
a look at what we observed.
First of all, we noticed that all backdoored ASUS binaries were signed with two different certificates. Here
are their fingerprints:
0ff067d801f7daeeae842e9fe5f610ea
05e6a0be5ac359c7ff11f4b467ab20fc
The same two certificates have been used in the past to sign at least 3000 legitimate ASUS files (i.e. ASUS
GPU Tweak, ASUS PC Link and others), which makes it very hard to revoke these certificates.
All of the signed binaries share certain interesting features: none of them had a signing timestamp set, and
the digest algorithm used was SHA1. The reason for this could be an attempt at hiding the time of the
operation to make it harder to discover related forensic artefacts.
ASUS real digital signature (left) and attacker’s signature (right)
Although there is no timestamp that can be relied on to understand when the attack started, there is a
mandatory field in the certificate, “Certificate Validity Period”, which can help us to understand roughly the
timeframe of the operation. Apparently, because the certificate that the attackers relied on expired in 2018
and therefore had to be reissued, they used two different certificates.
https://securelist.com/operation-shadowhammer-a-high-profile-supply-chain-attack/90380/ 8/25
4/24/2019 Operation ShadowHammer: A High Profile Supply Chain Attack | Securelist
Validity period of two abused digital certificates
Another notable fact is that both abused certificates are from the DigiCert SHA2 Assured ID Code Signing
CA.
Properties of legitimate ASUS binaries’ digital certificate
The legitimate ASUS binaries that we have observed use a different certificate, which was issued by the
DigiCert EV Code Signing CA (SHA2). EV stands for “Extended Validation” and provides for stricter
requirements for the party that intends to use the certificate, including hardware requirements. We believe
that the attackers simply did not have access to a production signing device with an EV certificate.
This indicates that the attackers most likely obtained a copy of the certificates or abused a system on the
ASUS network that had the certificates installed. We do not know about all software with malware injection
they managed to sign, and we believe that the compromised signing certificates must be removed and
revoked. Unfortunately, one month after this was reported to ASUS, newly released software (i.e. md5:
1b8d2459d4441b8f4a691aec18d08751) was still being signed with a compromised certificate. We have
immediately notified ASUS about this and provided evidence as required.
ASUS Download Agent signed by ASUS a month after breach notification