Wiretapping, interception of messages, and news about 5G
The number of attacks on telecom companies doubled compared to Q4 2020.
34
Q1
20
17
© Positive Technologies
Figure 16. Number of attacks on telecom companies
In 71% of the attacks, the attackers pursued the motive of obtaining data. The 5G
technology turned out to be a really interesting topic for hackers, perhaps due to
the fact that they want to understand the features of its implementation in order to
subsequently conduct attacks on subscribers. As part of a major cyberespionage
campaign, hackers created a fake website that mimics Huawei's official job portal.
Upon visiting this resource, a malicious Flash application was installed on the victim's
computer, which acted as a loader for a subsequent installation of Cobalt Strike
Beacon. At least 23 telecommunications companies fell prey to this campaign.
In early 2021, researchers from ClearSky reported on a campaign they identified,
which collected sensitive data. Conducted by the Volatile Cedar cybercrime group,
the campaign began in Q3 2020 and continues to this day. During the attacks,
hackers exploit the web vulnerabilities CVE 2019-3396 (Atlassian Confluence), CVE
2019-11581 (Atlassian Jira) and CVE 2012-3152 (Oracle Fusion). Among the victims
of this campaign were, for example, the American telecom company Frontier
Communications, the Egyptian mobile operator Vodafone Egypt, the Israeli National
Information Technology Center, as well as the telecom companies Mobily and
Saudinet in Saudi Arabia, and other major companies in the industry.
17
10% 10% 2%
39% 39%
Client database
Intellectual property
Personal data
Credentials
Payment card data
© Positive Technologies
Figure 17. Data stolen in attacks on telecom companies
Malware was used in 91% of the attacks. Most of the incidents (55%) involved RATs,
as in the case of USCellular. This fact may indicate that access to telecom companies
is of high value to hackers: it can be sold on a darkweb forum or used in further
attacks on subscribers.
Figure 18. Ad for access to the SS7 network and cybercriminal services
Access to telecom equipment can allow attackers to intercept calls and messages
of subscribers, track their location, and conduct fraudulent operations.
18