America’s Most Elite Line of Cyber-Defense: Tailored Access Operations (TAO)
As the most targeted Nation in the world, The United States intelligence community
has been continuously raising the bar to combat global bad actors. Tailored Access
Operations is the largest operative component of the Signal Intelligence Directorate of the
United States National Security Agency (NSA), consisting of over 1000 military and civilian
cyber security professionals, hackers, technology specialists, and hardware and software
designers. Approximately 600 of TAO’s Computer Network Exploitation (CNE) operators work
in rotating 24 hour, seven days a week, shifts out of the Remote Operations Center at Fort
Meade.
The Office of Tailored Access Operations produces some of the best intelligence for
the United States government and its work has been pivotal to the success of numerous
operations. TAO is credited with delivering critical information to the 2007 U.S. Army
operations in Iraq and in the 2007 operations to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear
weapons.
TAO is comprised of four main divisions. The Data Network Technologies Branch
develops the infiltration and collection software utilized by the TAO. The
Telecommunications Network Technologies Branch curates infiltration techniques. The
Mission Infrastructure Technologies Branch combines the spyware and techniques to use in
campaigns and they develop and build the computer and telecommunications hardware.
The Access Technologies Branch, which contains personnel seconded by the CIA and FBI,
performs “off-net operations.” TAO is headed by U.S. Cyber Command and the director of
the NSA.
54
The NSA describes TAO operations as computer network exploitation. TAO conducts
counterterrorism and traditional espionage operations, but they also conduct cyber-attacks
on behalf of the United States. Supposedly, TAO is able to compromise even the hardest
targets. TAO is tasked with monitoring foreign entities, infiltrating their networks, and
gathering information. It accomplishes its task through spyware or by compromising
network devices such as routers, switches, or firewalls, and monitoring the network traffic.
TAO is also tasked with developing malware or information profiles that would enable the
United States to cripple foreign network infrastructure or telecommunications if directed to
do so by President Obama.
The NSA is not authorized to conduct operations against domestic targets; however,
some are concerned about the massive telecommunications monitoring programs that were
revealed as a result of the Snowden leaks. The NSA monitors domestic traffic to capture
communications in which at least one party originates from outside the United States. When
CNE operators identify a network or system belonging to a nefarious foreign entity, they
attempt to compromise its security, download a copy of its hard drive for analysis, and plant
malware tools to monitor email and network traffic from the machine.
The main attack suite developed by the TAO and made public by the Snowden leak is
dubbed QUANTUM. QUANTUM features a suite of attack tools that enable DNS injection
attacks, HTTP injection attacks, and the ability to inject into MySQL connections. It also
contains tools to hijack IRC and HTTP-based criminal botnets and tools to create phantom
servers. The QUANTUMDEFENSE portion of the program searches tapped connections for
DNS requests for NIPRnet addresses and initiates a packet-injection attack on a DNS reply to
redirect the target to an NSA controlled site. This site may be a FOXACID server, which probes
the victim’s browser for weaknesses. The TAO can exploit any weaknesses with the
QUANTUMINSERT program and seize control of the victim system. QUANTUMSMACKDOWN
conducts packet injection attacks against attacks aimed at Department of Defense assets.
QUANTUMCOOKIE is used to de-anonymize Tor users through web cookies and fetch
requests. Finally, the QUANTUMSQIRREL program lets TAO pose as any authenticated user on
virtually any site by spoofing the IPv4 or IPv6 address of the host. Through this, TAO can
monitor most digital communication, create posts from a “trusted” account, or pose as
specific users in online transactions.
55