Multiple layers of security evasion
Based on Microsoft Defender ATP signals, SoftwareBundler:Win32/ICLoader and its variants are
primarily used to drop and run the Dexphot installer. The installer uses two URLs to download
malicious payloads. These are the same two URLs that Dexphot use later to establish
persistence, update the malware, and re-infect the device.
The installer downloads an MSI package from one of the two URLs, and then launches
msiexec.exe to perform a silent install. This is the first of several instances of Dexphot employing
living-off-the-land techniques, the use of legitimate system processes for nefarious purposes.
Dexphot’s package often contains an obfuscated batch script. If the package contains this file, the
script is the first thing that msiexec.exe runs when it begins the installation process. The said
obfuscated script is designed to check for antivirus products. Dexphot halts the infection process
immediately if an antivirus product is found running.
When we first began our research, the batch script only checked for antivirus products from Avast
and AVG. Later, Windows Defender Antivirus was added to the checklist.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2019/11/26/insights-from-one-year-of-tracking-a-polymorphic-threat/ 3/10
11/27/2019 Insights from one year of tracking a polymorphic threat - Microsoft Security
If the process is not halted, Dexphot decompresses the password-protected ZIP archive from the
MSI package. The password to this archive is within the MSI package. Along with the password,
the malware’s authors also include a clean version of unzip.exe so that they don’t have to rely on
the target system having a ZIP utility. The unzip.exe file in the package is usually named various
things, such as z.exe or ex.exe, to avoid scrutiny.
The ZIP archive usually contains three files: the loader DLL, an encrypted data file (usually
named bin.dat ), and, often, one clean unrelated DLL, which is likely included to mislead detection.
Dexphot usually extracts the decompressed files to the target system’s Favorites folder. The files
are given new, random names, which are generated by concatenating words and numbers based
on the time of execution (for example, C:\Users\\Favorites\Res.Center.ponse\ ).
The commands to generate the new names are also obfuscated, for example:
Msiexec.exe next calls rundll32.exe, specifying loader DLL ( urlmon.7z in the example above) in
order to decrypt the data file. The decryption process involves ADD and XOR operations, using a
key hardcoded in the binary.
The decrypted data contains three executables. Unlike the files described earlier, these
executables are never written to the filesystem. Instead, they exist only in memory, and Dexphot
runs them by loading them into other system processes via process hollowing.