Structure of the report
This report consists of six main sections:

Incidents involving Asian APT groups in various regions of the planet

Information on five unique incidents that we detected in different parts of the world.
Each incident is a unique case within a specific country and industry, and we
provide a description of the actions and TTPs of the perpetrators. At the end of each
section, we put together a consolidated table showing a list of TTPs (related to the
APT groups that we encountered in these incidents) and their overlapping use in
these incidents.
https://securelist.com/modern-asia-apt-groups-ttp/111009/ 2/7
1/16/24, 12:31 PM Modern Asia APT groups TTPs | Securelist

Technical details

A detailed description of the individual techniques that we detected in the attacks
conducted by Asian APT groups. Each technique contains the following:
Main description. Technical details on how the specific technique works.
Examples of procedures. Example implementations of this technique that we
detected in attacks by Asian APT groups.
Data on the approaches employed to detect the described technique, and the
EventIDs of events in various monitoring agents used to detect the specific
threat.
SIGMA rules. List of SIGMA rules relevant to this technique. The actual
SIGMA rules can be found in the Appendix: SIGMA.
3. Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
We used the Unified Kill Chain model to create our own table linked to Asian APT
groups, so that we could provide a high-level look at the motivations and behavioral
patterns of these actors, and provide data on the possible steps taken by Asian APT
groups when they conduct potential attacks.
4. Mitigation
The measures undertaken to mitigate risks associated with the described TTPs.

Statistics on attack victims

Consolidated statistics on the victims of Asian APT groups throughout the world and
a breakdown by country and industry.
6. Appendix: SIGMA
The SIGMA rules that can help to detect the techniques described in this report.
Download the full version of the Modern Asian APT groups’ tactics, techniques and
procedures report (English, PDF)
APT
Cyber espionage
Malware Statistics
Malware Technologies
Targeted attacks
TTPs
Modern Asian APT groups’ tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs)
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
GReAT webinars
13 May 2021, 1:00pm