17.1 Server Mode Thread
The service mode thread is an infinite loop that waits for incoming connections on the listening port and spawns a new
thread to handle any connection. When a new peer node connects to another SJM1 node, an authentication phase begins.
The authentication between two SJM1 nodes begins by the connecting node (the client, in this case) transmitting a 4-byte
(DWORD) value to the receiving node (the server). The value that the client sends to the server indicates the general class
of node the client is: standard node (0x1000) or a super-node (0x1000000). The authentication changes depending on the
type of node connecting.
A super-node transmits another 4-byte (DWORD) value that specifies the size of the next transmission. The next
transmission contains a buffer of data that has been encrypted by the super-node’s private key. SJM1 decrypts the data
using a hardcoded public key found within the SJM1’s .data section and the RSATransform function found in other
Lazarus Group families. A standard node, on the other hand, will simply transmit a 16-byte buffer of random bytes to the
server node. Both a super-node and a standard node will perform the initial data transmissions in cleartext.
Regardless of the type of node attempting to authentication, the server node echoes back to the client the data the client
sent to the server, with the exception that, in the case of a super-node, the data is now decrypted using the RSA transform.
When the server sends the data to the client, the data is encrypted using RC4. For each buffer that SJM1 sends (in both
server mode and client mode), the data is encrypted with RC4 using the key in Figure 17-2.
0x10, 0x20, 0x30, 0x40, 0x50, 0x60, 0x70, 0x80, 0x90, 0x11, 0x12, 0x13, 0x1A, 0xFF, 0xEE, 0x48
Figure 17-2: SierraJuliett-MikeOne’s RC4 Key
The Sbox within the RC4 implementation is reset after each buffer meaning that data boundaries are critical to avoid
corrupting the data stream. It also means that particularly short bursts of data are going to retain discernable patterns as
they traverse the network.
The client will then transmit a 30-byte string to the server (over the encrypted channel) if the server’s response was
correct. The server compares the 30-byte string with the hardcoded string https://www.google.com/index.h and if
the two strings are identical, the authentication completes successfully. A misstep in any of the authentication steps will
result in the authentication failing and the channel being closed by the server.
While the client can identify as a super-node, there is no advantage to do so as SJM1 do not grant additional access
or privileges to any node that authenticates as a super-node. The authentication process, from the perspective of the
node in the server role, is purely a binary output: successful or unsuccessful. The authentication process does, however,
ensure that both sides of the conversation have the same communication key for the RC4 encryption and that both sides
understand the basic protocol for communication. After the authentication sequence completes, all communications
between the two nodes uses the RC4 encryption for data that traverses the network between them.
Follow the authentication phase, the server mode expects the client to send a 2-byte (WORD) value that specifies the
particular channel the client wishes to access. SJM1 supports three different channels: crawler ( 0x2000 ), RAT ( 0x4000 ),
sync ( 0x8000 ).