Background on Domain Name Services and records management
The threat actors behind the Sea Turtle campaign were successful in compromising entities by
manipulating and falsifying DNS records at various levels in the domain name space. This section provides
a brief overview of where DNS records are managed and how they are accessed to help readers better
understand how these events unfolded.
The first and most direct way to access an organization's DNS records is through the registrar with the
registrant's credentials. These credentials are used to login to the DNS provider from the client-side, which
is a registrar. If an attacker was able to compromise an organization's network administrator credentials, the
attacker would be able to change that particular organization's DNS records at will.
The second way to access DNS records is through a DNS registrar, sometimes called registrar operators. A
registrar sells domain names to the public and manages DNS records on behalf of the registrant through
the domain registry. Records in the domain registry are accessed through the registry application using the
Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP). EPP was detailed in the request for comment (RFC) 5730 as "a
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2019/04/seaturtle.html 2/10
4/19/2019 Talos Blog || Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: DNS Hijacking Abuses Trust In Core Internet Service
means of interaction between a registrar's applications and registry applications." If the attackers were able
to obtain one of these EPP keys, they would be able to modify any DNS records that were managed by that
particular registrar.
The third approach to gain access to DNS records is through one of the registries. These registries manage
any known TLD, such as entire country code top-level domains (ccTLDs) and generic top-level domains
(gTLDs). For example, Verisign manages all entities associated with the top-level domain (TLD) ".com." All
the different registry information then converges into one of 12 different organization that manage different
parts of the domain registry root. The domain registry root is stored on 13 "named authorities in the
delegation data for the root zone," according to ICANN.
Finally, actors could target root zone servers to modify the records directly. It is important to note that there
is no evidence during this campaign (or any other we are aware of) that the root zone servers were
attacked or compromised. We highlight this as a potential avenue that attackers would consider. The root
DNS servers issued a joint statement that stated, "There are no signs of lost integrity or compromise of the
content of the root [server] zone…There are no signs of clients having received unexpected responses
from root servers."