Viet Nam’s History of Online Repression
Human rights are increasingly under attack both offline and online in Viet Nam. Over the
past 15 years, repression linked to online activity has intensified, leading to a wave
of harassment, intimidation, physical assault, and prosecution.
Amnesty International has documented multiple cases of the arrest and prosecution
of HRDs in Viet Nam in retaliation for their online expression since 2006. That
year, former prisoner of conscience Truong Quoc Huy was arrested at an internet café in
Ho Chi Minh City. Many activists and bloggers have been convicted for “conducting
propaganda against the state.” Human rights blogger Nguyen Ngoc Nhu Quynh (Mother
Mushroom) was sentenced to 10 years in prison in June 2017 on such charges.
1/7
                                              Activists and bloggers also face frequent physical assaults by officials or government

connected thugs. Police place activists under house arrest or briefly detain them to
prevent them from participating in public events. The government also uses travel bans to
prevent activists and HRDs from going abroad and engaging with the international
community.
In December 2020, Amnesty International published “Let Us Breathe”, a
report documenting the widespread criminalization, online harassment and physical
attacks faced by activists and bloggers and the rising numbers of individuals detained for
peacefully expressing themselves online. Amnesty International also revealed the
increasing complicity of tech giants Facebook and Google in the Vietnamese authorities’
harsh censorship regime, whereby any expression of peaceful dissent is liable to be
blocked or otherwise restricted.
Activists and HRDs are jailed, harassed, attacked, and censored into silence on the basis
of vague and sweeping laws that do not comply with international human rights
standards. In January 2019, a controversial Law on Cybersecurity came into effect in Viet
Nam, granting the government broad powers to limit online freedom, to compel
technology companies to hand over vast amounts of data and to censor users’ content.