Credential Theft in the Middle East
Bahamut has taken a more concerted effort to reduce exposure of their operations, preventing the
research techniques that led to our cataloguing of their infrastructure and operations in the first post.
Once again, the attempts all originate from less reputable hosting companies and networks
(AS44901, BelCloud Hosting Corporation). Spearphishing pages are now more resistant to
enumeration attempts and appear to use a dedicated subdomain for one specific victim. The unique
subdomain appears to be automatically disabled after the “successful” phishing attempt in order to
cover the trail of the attack (redirecting the user elsewhere or appearing to be a Google error page).
These pages have also increased their use of unicode replacements for letters and other font tricks as
a way to evade network filters or to deceive users (e.g. using r and n, “rn”, to appear like the letter “m”).
Altogether an already stealthy actor has improved their operational profile.
l
l
         -             -             -             (https://017qndpynh fywheel.netdnal ssl.com/wp content/uploads/2017/10/google verify.png)

l
l
         -             -             (https://017qndpynh fywheel.netdnal ssl.com/wp content/uploads/2017/10/elseif.png)

Curiously, Bahamut appears to track password attempts in response to failed phishing attempts or to
provoke the target to provide more passwords. These passwords are hardcoded in the phishing page
so that the login form will immediately return a “bad password” message if entered. This could be
designed to trick the user into providing older passwords or alternative passwords used on other
platforms to provide a foothold into other services. The result is that Bahamut spearphishing pages
include over two hundred possible real world passwords that appear to cover at least a couple of
dozen likely victims.
The theme of the passwords provide indication of the types of targets and victims of Bahamut since
our last encounter. Most of the domains clearly reflect a Middle Eastern audience, including referring
to individuals’ names (e.g. “al Khalifa”) and Emirati phone numbers. Some of these passwords are
cryptic – such as one referencing a supermarket in Beirut. Others reference a “national bloc,” Gaza,
the Dubai Expo in 2020, and a Saudi media entity. More generally, these targets appear to include
people or entities in the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Jordan, Libya, and Bahrain, among other
Arab countries. Further demonstrating its focus on the Middle East, the phishing page specifically
(and exclusively) checks if the visitor’s browser is set to the Arabic language and redirects them to a
translated page. Where targets are personally identifiable, these campaigns reflect an intimate
understanding of the relationships and members of the policy and international relations sectors of
certain Gulf states – information that would not be readily accessible to a bystander, and targets that
would not be of interest outside of political motivations.
The recent incidents also involved a social engineering tactic well documented in the Kingphish
report: fictitious social media profiles. In Kingphish, a profile active on LinkedIn, Twitter, and Facebook
(purporting to be an IT and business professional) approached labor rights advocates requesting help
on research about human trafficking.
                                         -                                             Similarly, a fctitious LinkedIn profi [le (https://www.linkedin.com/in/sophiei](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sophie-foster-65920b147/) foster 65920b147/)

named “Sophie Foster” attempted to simultaneously approach multiple targets of Bahamut’s phishing
messages. The Foster profile appears crafted for a professional Middle East related demographic,
claiming to have experience in public relations and international trade. Among connections to SOAS
and LSE students, which appear to be cover related to her claimed educational background, the
profile has a clear theme in targets: journalists and public relations professionals in the Middle East,
including individuals at Sky News Arabia and Al-Masry Al-Youm, and others in Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi,
          -               UAE, and Turkey. A two year old Facebook profile exists (https://www.facebook.com/people/Sophie

Foster/100019404465464) for the persona, which has liked pages for Lebanese politicians and has a
Mail.ru account linked to it.
l
l
         -             -             (https://017qndpynh fywheel.netdnal ssl.com/wp content/uploads/2017/10/sophie.png)

Bahamut spearphishing attempts have also been accompanied with SMS messages purporting to be
from Google about security issues on their account, including a class 0 message or “fash text.l ”
                     -                          -                          -                          -                          (http://devlib.symbian.slions.net/s3/GUID CBFDD753 BAE3 5C40 B947 EB8CDA11CD23.html)

These text messages did not include links but are intended to build credibility around the fake service
notifications later sent to the target’s email address. The use of fake sender identifiers – especially
combined with the unusual flash text approach – could be effective, but once again Bahamut is
betrayed by its unusual English.
l
l
Bahamut also appears to be more aggressive in reconnaissance against targets. As it harvested
potential addresses associated with targets, it would sended tailored or salacious messages with
image-based trackers to check if the message was opened. These provide a metric as to whether the
target is ignoring attacks, or whether the email address is not monitored or active. The messages
were crafted to a Middle East focused audience, primarily posing as news stories or media outlets
(e.g. Al Monitor) relevant to the region.
l
f
         -             -             (https://017qndpynh fywheel.netdnal ssl.com/wp content/uploads/2017/10/fakemeails.jpg)
