Tools
CTU researchers and Secureworks incident responders have observed BRONZE PRESIDENT
using the following tools, along with several custom batch scripts for locating and archiving
specific file types:
Cobalt Strike — This popular and commercially available penetration tool gains shell
access to an infected system. It allows threat actors to execute additional tools and perform
post-intrusion actions on compromised systems. Cobalt Strike appears to be one of
BRONZE PRESIDENT's preferred remote access tools. During one intrusion, the threat
actors installed it on over 70% of accessible hosts. The group's Cobalt Strike installation
typically uses a payload named svchost.exe in an attempt to disguise Cobalt Strike activity
as the legitimate Windows svchost.exe executable.
https://www.secureworks.com/research/bronze-president-targets-ngos 3/14
1/6/2020 BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets NGOs | Secureworks
PlugX — This remote access trojan (RAT) is popular among PRC-based targeted threat
groups. Its functionality includes uploading and downloading files, and it has configurable
network protocols. BRONZE PRESIDENT installs PlugX using DLL side-loading. In June
and August 2019, BRONZE PRESIDENT delivered PlugX via government and law
enforcement-themed phishing lures.
ORat — CTU researchers have only observed this basic loader tool in the context of
BRONZE PRESIDENT intrusions. ORat is the name assigned by the malware author, as
denoted by the program debug database string in the analyzed sample:
D:\vswork\Plugin\ORat\build\Release\ORatServer\Loader.pdb. The tool uses the Windows
Management Instrumentation (WMI) event consumer for persistence by installing a script to
the system's WMI registry. Messages sent from ORat to its command and control (C2)
server start with the string "VIEWS0018x". If the data received from the C2 server starts
with the same string, then the remainder of the payload is decompressed using ORat's
"deflate" algorithm and called as a function. ORat acts as a flexible loader tool rather than a
fully featured remote access tool.
RCSession — This basic RAT is installed via DLL side-loading, and CTU researchers
observed BRONZE PRESIDENT installing it on multiple hosts during intrusions. RCSession
was extracted from a file called English.rtf and launched via a hollowed svchost.exe
process. RCSession connects to its C2 server via a custom protocol, can remotely execute
commands, and can launch additional tools. CTU researchers have no evidence of other
threat actors using RCSession or of wide proliferation of the tool, suggesting it may be
exclusively used by BRONZE PRESIDENT.
Nbtscan — This publicly available command-line tool scans systems for NetBIOS name
information (see Figure 2). In an example observed by CTU researchers, the Nbtscan
executable was named Adobe.exe and was installed in several working directories on
compromised hosts, including: C:\Recovery.
Figure 2. Nbtscan being used via RCSession to scan an internal IP range. (Source:
Secureworks)
Nmap — BRONZE PRESIDENT used this freely available network scanning tool from the
C:\PerfLogs\ folder.
Wmiexec — This publicly available tool uses WMI to create SYSTEM-level shells on
remote hosts.