Custom build tools
PLINK Tool
A slightly modified version of PLINK, part of the PuTTY suite, was also revealed by Bitdefender telemetry
in late September 2018. It preserves the original functionality, with some key new features such as the
possibility to run it as a Windows service or to uninstall the service. We believe this tool may have been used
either to communicate with the CnC or to gain access to some internals machines, but found no conclusive
evidence to support these scenarios. As filenames, we’ve seen only one name: “ wehsvc.exe ”.
Proxy Tools
Beside PLINK, we spotted a command line tool, written in C++, that implements a proxy. The architecture of this
application is straightforward, imposing the following flow:


it connects to the first available server from a given list


sends the following HTTP header “GET /CNT HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: bing.com\r\nUser-Agent:
Mozilla/5.0”, to indicate the beginning of the communication


waits for the server for a limited time, which will send a byte, representing a command and the associated


message.
The exposed commands are for setting or viewing the proxy id, echoing, session resetting, starting a tunnel or exiting.
Tunneling option (also denoted by debugging strings), which is the main functionality of this component,
implements socks5 protocol. When this command is selected, the proxy starts a new tcp connection with the current
server, sending the following http header “ GET /TNL HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: bing.com\r\nUser-Agent:
Mozilla/5.0”. Then, it switches to the socks5 protocol on a new thread.
7
Bitdefender Whitepaper
Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia
On some systems where we found this file, we noticed another proxy, different from the previous one. In terms of
implementation, it uses a custom protocol, which implies using a table of available connections and their ids. Those
ids are used in sending messages between hosts. Also, this one was packet by the UPX packer, version 3.03.The main
purpose of this tool is to give the attacker access to the internal network of the victim.
In our telemetry, those files were seen with the name of “ mini.exe ”, “ mfevtpse.exe ” or “ mfevtps.exe ”.
RAT Tools
During the attack, we also observed the use of a command line utility, which is a RAT, written in Python (probably
version 3.4) and converted into a standalone executable. Interestingly, the user interacts with this tool in a similar way
as with “mini.exe”, described in the Proxy Tools section. The same filename for default input, the common debugging
strings, even the help page for the two are very similar, which suggests a possible connection between the two.
This tool uses 2 types of communications (“D NS” and “HTTP”, as found in code), both over TCP, with the same
functionality. They both marshal the message such that the packet will resemble a DNS, and HTTP, packet. Parts of the
headers that are hardcoded can be seen below.
Part of header that will be included in the request (dns communication)
Part of header that will be included in the response (dns communication).
Headers for http communications are “ GET /owa HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: live.com ” for request and “ HTTP/1.1 200 OK ” for
response. Also, some parts of the code are specific to different operating systems, which means that this tool may be
in the wild in other forms.
Filenames for these tools found in our telemetry are “ snmp.exe ”, “ imjpuexa.exe ” and “ driver_x86.exe ”.
Our telemetry for the same machines revealed two other files that implement RAT functionalities, besides “snmp.
exe”and“imjpuexa.exe”.
One of them is very similar to MechaFlounder, as described by previous security research, but packing a few new
features. It implements a persistence mechanism (using a scheduled task, named “ Defender Update ”) and a custom
communication protocol over DNS ( besides HTTP) with the CnC, where the response is found either in the IPv4 address
or in the TXT record.
The second file is also about persistence and features a similar mechanism for parsing commands as the previous
file. However, it uses the “Service Update” scheduled task name, instead of “Defender Update”. The key difference
between the two files is that the latter, in this case, communicates with the CnC through files uploaded to Dropbox,
where each victim has a separate folder named with the same combination of username and machine name as used
by MechaFlounder . The command, “service.html” is placed in the root of this directory, uploaded files from the victim
8
Bitdefender Whitepaper
Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia
are placed into a folder named “/download”, and the files for download are placed into the “/upload” folder. Also, all
feedback messages are simplified and uploaded in the same directory, under the name “results.txt”. It also implements
a synchronization mechanism by using the folder “done”, placed in the root location for each victim.
Filenames for the two RATs are: “ drivers.exe ” (“ drivers_x64.exe ” for the 64-bit version) and “ dbxservice.exe ”. In terms
of persistence, both “ drivers_x64.exe ” and “ dbxservice.exe ” make a copy of themselves in the Temp folder, named
“ MSCService.exe ”, or “ DBXService.exe ” and then create a scheduled task that will reference them in that location.
Another interesting thing found in the decompiled code of the two files is the use of the special Unicode character
“202e” (Right-to-Left Override character), in the persistence section. This character is expected to be found as the first
command line argument.