Large organized criminal groups
Large criminal groups differ from the other players, both
through a larger scale of activity and through a more
thorough approach to the organization and operation of
criminal schemes. Such groups can comprise up to
several dozen people (not including money mules used for
cashing and “laundering” money.) The targets of their
attacks are not limited to individual online banking
customers: they also attack small and medium­sized
companies, while the largest and most sophisticated of
them, such as Carbanak focus mostly on banks and e­
payment systems.
The operational structure of large groups differs
significantly from smaller groups. To a certain extent, the
structure reflects that of an ordinary, average­sized
company engaged in software development.
In particular, large groups have some form of regular staff
– a group of associates who perform organizational tasks
in return for a regular, fixed payment. However, even in
these large, professional groups some of the tasks are
passed to third­party contractors. For example, the “re­
packing” of malware can be performed by the staff or hired
virus writers or via third­party services where the process
is automated with the help of special software. The same
is true for many other elements of the IT infrastructure
required for committing crime.
Examples of large, organized criminal groups are Carberp,
whose members were arrested in Russia and Ukraine in
2012 and 2013 respectively, and Carbanak, unmasked by
Kaspersky Lab in early 2015.
Although the damage from the activity of partner programs
and small groups can run into hundreds of thousands of
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 14/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
dollars, the large criminal groups are the most dangerous
and destructive. The estimated damage caused by
Carberp reaches several hundred million dollars (up to a
billion). In this regard, studying how these groups function
and the tactics they use is extremely important, as it
strengthens our ability to effectively investigate their
activity and – ultimately – to suppress it.