ATTACK PREPARATION
Like the majority of APT groups, Silence uses phishing as their infection vector. Now, however,
their campaigns are carried out in two stages. In 2018, Silence conducted test campaigns
to update their database of current targets and expand their attack geography. The threat actor’s
emails usually contain a picture or a link without a malicious payload and are sent out to a huge
Recon Campaigns in Russia and the former Soviet Union
Recon campaigns carried out in Russia and the former Soviet Union were also as large. From
16 October 2018 to 1 January 2019, Silence sent out about 84,000 emails in Russia alone
to update their address database. In the former Soviet Union, the attackers targeted banks
in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine.
European Recon Campaigns
Silence’s European Recon campaign involved the smallest number of email addresses. On October
18th, 2018, the group sent out emails to British financial companies as part of their preparatory
campaign. In total, less than 10,000 emails without malicious contents were sent to recipients
in UK banks.
7
With the important exception of the above-mentioned recon emails, Silence’s tactics have
remained largely the same. As part of their phishing campaigns, the group still uses Microsoft
Office documents with macros or exploits, CHM files, and .LNK shortcuts as malicious
attachments.
If the initial infection is successful, a primary loader called Silence.Downloader (aka TrueBot)
is installed on the system. In 2019, Group-IB also observed the use of a new fileless PowerShell
loader called Ivoke . Primary loaders are designed to collect information about an infected system
and send it to an intermediate CnC server. The operators of such servers then decide whether
to send a command to load the next stage manually. The primary loader receives a link to the
next stage in the form of a command and launches it. The primary loader used by Silence has
significantly evolved and is described in detail in the Changes in Tools section.
The Silence.Main Trojan, which is the main stage of the attack, has a full set of commands
to control a compromised computer. As the CnC server, the attackers use CnC-3 server running
Windows, from which they send commands to download additional modules. The main Trojan has
been modified as well and the changes are described in detail in the Changes in Tools section.
In recent attacks, Silence has started to download a PowerShell agent that is based on the opensource projects Empire (https://github.com/EmpireProject/Empire) and dnscat2 (https://github.
com/lukebaggett/dnscat2-powershell/blob/master/dnscat2.ps1). In the chart, the CnC server
of this program is designated CnC-4. The new Trojan, which we have dubbed EmpireDNSAgent
or simply EDA, is described in the Changes in Tools section.
In addition, the group downloads the reverse proxy programs Silence.ProxyBot and Silence.
ProxyBot.NET, which are described in detail in the report Silence: moving into the darkside .
Both of these programs also use the same CnC-3 server as the backconnect server. No significant
changes have been made to these programs, which is why they are not described in this report.
The group continues to use winexe, sdelete, and Farse for lateral movement across networks.
For more details about these tools, refer to Silence: moving into the darkside .
To control ATMs, the group uses the Atmosphere Trojan, which is unique to Silence, or a program
called xfs-disp.exe . No significant changes have been made to Atmosphere. For more details
about it, please refer to Silence: moving into the darkside . xfs-disp.exe is described in the
Changes in Tools section.
9