d3d11.dll
MD5: bb897e34bc0d1e82dfe79d0898f5aa88
SHA256: c3681cd6e3fb12a4962091a981598c636f214237ec6c8b2915b2ff714d7f6e49
Upon discovery of this sample, we first performed a retrohunt analysis. The discovery of a
related binary led us to initially believe the sample was a Dumpert. However, a more in-depth
analysis revealed that the d3d11.dll sample implanted a skeleton key, where adversaries could
persistently control (before the system reboot) the infected machine and machines under the
infected AD. More specifically, the malware was an account manipulation tool that contained code
extracted from both Dumpert and Mimikatz. We called this malware SkeletonKeyInjector. The
malware employed a technique that altered the NTLM authentication program and implanted a
skeleton key to allow adversaries to log-in without a valid credential. This allowed the adversary to
achieve the following objectives:
Persistence: After the code in memory was altered, the adversary could gain access to the
compromised machines before the next system reboot. As AD machines are rarely rebooted,
the adversary was able to control the machines for a very long time.
Defense Evasion: Aside from the different login password and login algorithm scheme,
there was no difference when compared to a normal login activity. Furthermore, normal
users could still log-in to the system via their original password. Thus, the probability of
being exposed was low.
Lateral Movement: Adversaries could use the skeleton key to log in to other machines that
were in the same domain. This made it easier for an adversary to conduct lateral movement.
To show which functions shared a resemblance to Mimikats or Dumpert, we reversed the
functions of d3d11.dll and recovered the function names in Fig 14. For easy understanding, we
recovered the function names that migrated from Mimikatz, which have either the “kuhl” or “kull”
prefix. As for functions that migrated from Dumpert, the prefix “Dumpert” was included in the
name. For functions that were implemented by the adversary, no prefix was added.
13
Figure 14: Reversed function names
In order to bypass the API monitoring, which is widely used in anti-virus or EDR products, the
malware directly invoked syscalls and implemented high level API logic. Since the syscall numbers
differ between each Windows version, the following code snippet was used to determine the OS
version in use, and thereby obtain the correct syscall number. Our analysis showed that this code
snippet was copied from Dumpert.
Figure 15: Dumpert detect OS version capability
To run the Mimikatz code snippet used by the malware, a privilege called
14
SE_DEBUG_PRIVILEGE was needed. The code shown in Fig 16 used RtlAdjustPrivilege to
obtain the SE_DEBUG_PRIVILEGE to allow the malware to open, read, and write other process
memory as a debugger. By comparing the code snippet (Fig 17) with the original code in Mimikatz
(Fig 18), we found that instead of calling the OpenProcess API, the malware instead invoked
OpenProcess via Dumpert. As mentioned earlier, the malware sought to bypass the API hooking via
syscalls.
Figure 16: SE_DEBUG_PRIVILEGE
SkeletonKeyInjector first searched for the string “Kerberos-Newer-Keys” in the lsass.exe
process memory. When the “Kerberos-Newer-Keys” address was found, it then searched for the
Unicode structure in the memory that referenced this address. Afterwards, the Unicode structure
was altered with empty strings by manipulating the string reference to an empty string and size
zero. This manipulation downgraded the lsass.exe in using insecure crypto scheme - RC4 without
salt. From Fig 17 and Fig 18, the similar code segments between Mimikatz and d3d11.dll are
shown.
Figure 17: SkeletonKeyInjector Code Snippet I
15
Figure 18: Similar code in Mimikatz
Figure 19: Code of SkeletonKeyInjector to patch the CDLocateCSystem
After downgrading to RC4, the SkeletonKeyInjector altered the function pointers
in cryptdll.dll!CDLocateCSystem by redirecting them to its customized functions (Fig 19).
Specifically, two functions were altered, one for the RC4 initialization, and the other for the RC4
decryption. In the RC4 initialization function, a new RC4 NTLM was injected with a pre-calculated
hash value of the skeleton key. When the authentication check failed due to incorrect credentials,
the RC4 decryption function prompted the authentication process to compare the credentials with
the skeleton key. Once a match was confirmed, the log in was permitted. Noteworthy, the malware
contained customized NTLM hash, which had a slight difference over the original Mimikatz.
16
Figure 20: Forged RC4 init function
In Fig 20 and 21, the similarities between SkeletonKeyInjector and Mimikatz are illustrated.
Figure 21: Forged RC4 init function in Mimikatz
17