Group profiles
APT-C-35 (Donot, SectorE02), active since 2016, attacks organizations in
South Asia: Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, and
countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. The attackers take the
guise of governmental institutions, military entities, and telecom companies.
Bronze Union, also known as TG-3390, LuckyMouse, APT27, or Emissary
Panda, has been involved in cyberespionage attacks since 2010. To gain
a foothold on networks, the group often uses watering hole attacks: they
target the websites frequented by targeted users and place malware on
the websites in order to automatically infect visitors' computers. Currently
the group targets governmental entities and companies involved in indus
try, military manufacturing, energy, aerospace, and other high-tech fields
around the world.
Cobalt has been known since 2016 for its attacks on financial institutions.
The group started off by stealing from banks in CIS countries. Since 2017,
it has expanded its range of targets to include banks in Eastern Europe
and Southeast Asia. The group was named after Cobalt Strike, the pene
tration testing software used by the group to develop attacks within target
networks. Its primary method of breaching corporate networks is phishing
messages with malicious files in various formats: executable files, Office
documents with macros or exploits, LNK files, and passworded archives
containing executable files.
Cobalt Dickens first caught attention in 2017. In 2019, the group attacked at
least 380 post-secondary educational institutions in over 30 countries in or
der to obtain intellectual property. University faculty and students received
phishing messages claiming to come from libraries. The messages pointed
to phishing pages, where users were prompted to enter their credentials,
which were then used by the attackers to access research of interest.
eGobbler, known since early 2019, exploited Chrome vulnerability CVE
2019-5840 to show malicious advertising to users of iOS mobile devices. In
the second half of 2019, the group increased its reach to all WebKit brows
ers, including desktop versions, running on Windows, Linux, and macOS.
From August 1 to September 23, the group was able to show around 1.16 bil
lion impressions to potential victims, in the hope of drawing them to fraud
ulent and phishing-related sites.
Gamaredon has been active since 2013. The attackers focus exclusively
on Ukrainian governmental entities: their C2 servers perform filtering by
geographic region. In their attacks, the group uses a chain of scripts to
download the Ultra VNC remote management utility to the victim's com
puter. They use a self-developed framework named Pteranodon for full
fledged management of infected hosts. With it, the attackers can collect
information about the system and users, steal passwords, run scripts and
commands, and exfiltrate information to C2 servers.
KONNI has been active since at least 2014. The group's name comes from
the malware named KONNI, which it used in its attacks. The malware can
24
steal files containing sensitive information, intercept and save passwords
entered by users, take screenshots, and run commands on infected com
puters. The main objective of the group is espionage and access to data.
The history of RTM dates back to 2016. The group attempts to access cor
porate bank accounts and steal funds. They use phishing messages to ob
tain access to corporate networks. Since the very start, the group has used
a consistent format in such messages. Positive Technologies data indicates
that in 2018 alone, the group carried out 59 mailings, the recipients of which
included financial institutions. In 2019, the group moved to use of the Bitcoin
blockchain. Most targets are financial institutions, although cases have also
included industry, government, and IT-related organizations. In addition,
the group has used .bit domains for C2. The .bit zone is powered by the
Namecoin blockchain, which acts as a censor-proof and confiscation-re
sistant alternative to traditional DNS registrars. Experts at the PT Expert
Security Center were able to use the blockchain architecture to devise an
algorithm for monitoring registration of new domains by RTM and changes
in their IP addresses. This enabled warning financial institutions and the se
curity community of new C2 servers in a matter of minutes (or sometimes
even before) they entered use by the attackers.
TA505 has operated since 2014. The group's targets include major financial,
manufacturing, transportation, and governmental organizations in Canada,
South Korea, the United Kingdom, the United States, and dozens of other
countries. Phishing messages are the group's main method for penetrating
target networks. With each new wave of attacks, the group has made quali
tative changes to its toolkit and advanced to more sophisticated techniques
for maintaining stealth. Since 2014, the group's arsenal has included the
Dridex banking trojan, Neutrino botnet, and several families of ransomware,
including Locky, Jaf, and GlobeImposter. Since spring 2018 the group has
used the FlawedAmmyy remote access trojan, and since late 2018, the new
ServHelper backdoor.
25
About
Positive Technologies
Positive Technologies is a leading global provider of enterprise security solutions for vulnerability and compliance management, incident
and threat analysis, and application protection. Commitment to clients and research has earned Positive Technologies a reputation as one
of the foremost authorities on Industrial Control System, Banking, Telecom, Web Application, and ERP security, supported by recognition
from the analyst community. Learn more about Positive Technologies at ptsecurity.com.
ptsecurity.com © 2019 Positive Technologies. Positive Technologies and the Positive Technologies logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of
info@ptsecurity.com Positive Technologies. All other trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.
Cybersecurity_threatscape-2019-Q3_A4.ENG.0003.02