Targets
Attor’s espionage operation is highly targeted – we were able to trace Attor’s operation back to at
least 2013, yet we only identified a few dozen victims. Despite that, we were able to learn more
about the intended victims by analyzing artifacts in the malware.
For example, in order to be able to report on the victim’s activities, Attor monitors active
processes to take screenshots of selected applications. Only certain applications are targeted –
those with specific substrings in the process name or window title.
Besides standard services such as popular web browsers, instant messaging applications and
email services, the list of targeted applications contains several Russian services, as detailed in
Table 1.
Table 1. Domains misused in the campaign
Process name/window title substring Context
ОДНОКЛАССНИКИ (transl. Classmates) Russian social network (Odnoklass‐
niki)
AGENTVKONTAKTE Russian social network (VKontakte)
WEBMONEY Online payment system used in
Russia (WebMoney)
MAIL.YANDEX, ЯНДЕКС.ПОЧТА (transl. Yandex.Mail), MAIL.RU,
POCHTA (transl. Mail), MAGENT
Russian email services (Mail.ru,
Yandex.Mail)
ПРИГЛАШЕНИЕ ДРУЖИТЬ (transl. Friend request) Russian text
ВАМ СООБЩЕНИЕ (transl. Message for you) Russian text
MULTIFON Russian VoIP service
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/10/10/eset-discovers-attor-spy-platform/ 1/14
10/11/2019 ESET discovers Attor, a spy platform with curious GSM fingerprinting | WeLiveSecurity
Table 1. Domains misused in the campaign
QIP, INFIUM Russian IM application (QIP)
RAMBLER Russian search engine (Rambler)
The list includes the two most popular social networks in Russia (Odnoklassniki, VKontakte) and
a VoIP service provided by a Russian telecom operator (Multifon). Our conclusion is that Attor is
specifically targeting Russian-speakers, which is further supported by the fact that most of the
targets are located in Russia, as seen in Figure 1. Other targets are located in Eastern Europe,
and they include diplomatic missions and governmental institutions.
Figure 1. Countries affected by Attor
In addition to its geographical and language targeting, Attor’s creators appear to be specifically
interested in users concerned about their privacy.
Attor is configured to capture screenshots of encryption/digital signature utilities, the VPN service
HMA, end‑to‑end encryption email services Hushmail and The Bat!, and the disk encryption utility
TrueCrypt.
The victim’s usage of TrueCrypt is further inspected in another part of Attor. It monitors hard disk
devices connected to the compromised computer, and searches for the presence of TrueCrypt. If
TrueCrypt is detected, its version is determined by sending IOCTLs to the TrueCrypt driver
(0x222004 (TC_IOCTL_GET_DRIVER_VERSION) and 0x72018
(TC_IOCTL_LEGACY_GET_DRIVER_VERSION)). As these are TrueCrypt-specific control
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/10/10/eset-discovers-attor-spy-platform/ 2/14
10/11/2019 ESET discovers Attor, a spy platform with curious GSM fingerprinting | WeLiveSecurity
codes, not standard codes, the authors of the malware must actually understand the open-source
code of TrueCrypt installer. We have not seen this technique used before nor seen it documented
in other malware.
Figure 2. The Device monitor plugin sends non-standard, TrueCrypt-specific control codes to the TrueCrypt driver, in order to
determine the TrueCrypt version