The Elderwood Platform
The Elderwood Platform is the name given to a set of zero-day exploits that is either
used within a large organization or sold as a package to many attackers. The Elderwood
platform was discovered by Symantec in 2009-2012, following the actor’s 2009 compromise
of Google with the Hydra (Aurora) Trojan. It is not clear whether Elderwood is a single
criminal group that distributes its platform or if it is part of a major organization that
distributes its platform to its subdivisions. In the former scenario, the Elderwood distributor
may preferentially sell its platform to separate criminal entities at the same time. In most
cases, the “buyers” receive the exploit around the same time. This could be an operational
choice on behalf of the seller, a systematic choice (i.e. the “seller” sells once they find an
exploit), or a procedure meant to obfuscate the activities of any one “buyer.” In the latter
scenario, Symantec theorizes that a parent organization may distribute the platform and it
may task its subdivisions with targeting particular industries or sectors. Each subgroup then
utilizes their own infrastructure to stage the attacks using the shared platform.
Zero-day exploits are rare and valuable and the Elderwood platform relies upon zero
day exploits to compromise its victims. Somehow the Elderwood platform has consistently
been updated with new zero-day exploits since 2009. In fact, no other actor has been able to
obtain and utilize as many zero-day exploits as the actor behind the Elderwood platform. This
suggests that either the actor behind the Elderwood platform has a highly sophisticated
technical team that is capable of farming zero-day exploits or that Elderwood is funded by a
criminal organization or state sponsor that possess significant resources. Unless the technical
team that farms the exploits is paid an extremely high sum, neither theory explains why the
exploits do not appear on underground markets until long after Elderwood has used the
exploit.
A hybrid theory is possible. Perhaps the Elderwood group sells their platform to a
third party for one reason or another, and that party then resells the platform to smaller
groups. The hybrid model could explain how the Elderwood platform continues to utilize new
8
and unique zero-day exploits because an exploit could be sold whenever the group feels that
it has served its purpose and then they can purchase new exploits using the money received
from selling the previous exploit to numerous other buyers. Alternately, perhaps a simpler
solution exists. Zero- day exploits are juicy pieces of information. It is possible that
Elderwood activity attracts the notice of other groups who watch the attacks and reverse
engineer the exploits. The lower tier attackers would need inside knowledge of Elderwood
activity and they would have to outpace cybersecurity response teams, else the exploits
would be of little value.
In recent years, other notable campaigns have utilized the Elderwood platform or its
exploits. Hidden Lynx used internet explorer exploits and its ZXshell backdoor in attacks
against the defense industry. Vidgrab exploited internet explorer to install the vidgrab
backdoor on systems belonging to Japanese users and it exploited Adobe flash to install the
Jolob backdoor on systems belonging to Uyghur dissidents. Icefog exploited both Adobe
Flash and Internet Explorer to install the Linfo and Hormesu backdoors respectively on
systems in the manufacturing industry. Sakurel used multiple Internet Explorer exploits and
an Adobe Flash exploit to compromise Aerospace engine manufacturer systems with the
Sakurel Trojan.
The Elderwood platform is used against targets in a large number of sectors. Most
frequently, the Elderwood platform is employed against organizations involved in defense,
defense supply chain manufacturing, IT, and Human Rights. Organizations are attacked
through watering hole attacks, spear phishing emails, and web exploits. Symantec believes
that it is possible that manufacturers and tangential sector organizations and sites are
compromised to target top tier primary targets. In this case, organizations in Manufacturing,
Engineering, Electronic, Energy, Arms, Shipping or Aeronautics industries may be targeted as
stepping stones to compromise Defense organizations. Additionally, Software or Financial
firms might be targeted so the attacker can compromise NGOs.
The Elderwood platform predominantly targets United States organizations. Firms in
Canada, China, Hong Kong, and Australia have also been frequently targeted. Organizations
based in Taiwan, United Kingdom, Switzerland, India, and Denmark have been sporadically
targeted. Victims are targeted for information and intellectual property contained on their
systems. The lack of theft of financial information complicates the actor profile because a
mercenary distributor is less likely to steal nation-state information over financial
information. One could argue that information is stolen with the Elderwood platform to
assist in other breaches; however, a mercenary group would likely not be able to analyze
information as rapidly as had the Elderwood group.
9
Between 2009 and 2014, the Elderwood platform has featured numerous Adobe
Flash and Internet Explorer zero-day exploits. Adobe Flash and Internet Explorer are
notoriously vulnerable applications. Typically, Adobe Flash, Internet Explorer, or both are
present on a system. The attack platform also contains a document creation kit which
enables the attacker to combine a clean document with a Trojan of their choice to create a
malicious document. These documents are then used in spear phishing campaigns. The
platform also contains a Shockwave Flash file that ensures that Trojans are downloaded
onto target machines in the correct locations. The platform could contain information
gathering tools such as keyloggers, automated domain name and account generators, and
an information analysis platform.