PPS EDIT TIME ANALYSIS [17]
Following a review of the PPS files found on the C&C server, we extracted data concerning the
time of day when each PPS file was last modified, and plotted this on a graph. Below, we can see
that more editing occurred during certain hours of the day.
Number of edits by time of day

17 Time zone analysis and research activity associated with daytime hours is circumstantial by definition.
Some threat actors work around the clock, and manipulation of timestamps has been seen in past attacks
by various threat actors. While it should be treated with due suspicion, it has also proven itself highly
valuable in analysis of APT threat actors in the past and cannot be discounted.
Research 19
TLP: GREEN
Based on modification times of the infecting presentation files, we see two distinct batches of
work. The first, where the bulk of changes has been made, stretches from around 4:00 to 12:00
in coordinated universal time. To visualize what exactly that means, this time range was
considered in the context of a standard 9am - 7pm work day and applied to a map. The “First
stretch of work” label on the map below depicts the areas of the world in which 4:00 - 12:00 UTC
would fall within the standard work day. Similarly, the time zones shaded within the “Second
stretch of work” area are representative of the areas of the world in which 19:00 - 22:00 UTC falls
within the work day. Since the time span of the second stretch of work is smaller in range, the
hours in universal time fall within the working hours of more countries. Based on this map, we
can conclude that it is most likely that the threat actors were based within the blue areas.
Attacker operating times that overlap with a standard 9am-7pm workday (darker means larger
volume)
Many of the conclusions drawn from the above map were also confirmed through other sources.
Extra data we were able to extract and analyze further correlated with this data, as well as with
the previous PPS data.
Research 20
TLP: GREEN