Afterthoughts
Seeing Triconex systems targeted with malicious intent was new to the world six months
ago. Moving forward it would be reasonable to anticipate additional frameworks, such
as TRITON, designed for usage against other SIS controllers and associated technologies.
If Triconex was within scope, we may see similar attacker methodologies affecting the
dominant industrial safety technologies.
Basic security measures do little to thwart truly persistent threat actors and monitoring
only IT networks is not an ideal situation. Visibility into both the IT and OT environments
is critical for detecting the various stages of an ICS intrusion. Simple detection concepts
such as baseline deviation can provide insight into abnormal activity.
While the TRITON framework was actively in use, how many traditional ICS “alarms”
were set off while the actors tested their exploits and backdoors on the Triconex
controller? How many times did the TriStation protocol, as implemented in their Python
scripts, fail or cause errors because of non-standard traffic? How many TriStation UDP
Convert webpages to pdf online i d h with PDFmyURL C i R ? H did h i i
pings were sent and how many Connection Requests? How did these statistics compare
to the baseline for TriStation traffic? There are no answers to these questions for now.
We believe that we can identify these anomalies in the long run if we strive for increased
visibility into ICS technologies.
We hope that by holding public discussions about ICS technologies, the Infosec
community can cultivate closer relationships with ICS vendors and give the world better
insight into how attackers move from the IT to the OT space. We want to foster more
conversations like this and generally share good techniques for finding evil. Since most
of all ICS attacks involve standard IT intrusions, we should probably come together to
invent and improve any guidelines for how to monitor PCs and engineering workstations
that bridge the IT and OT networks. We envision a world where attacking or disrupting
ICS operations costs the threat actor their cover, their toolkits, their time, and their
freedom. It's an ideal world, but something nice to shoot for.