Command and control
As with all malware, the command and control functions reveal the true nature and intent of the
operators. Up until now we have only determined how the malware communicates with the server. We will
now investigate the mechanisms that the server uses to communicate and interact with the victim.
The command and control routine in OrcaRAT appears to serve two purposes. Interestingly these routines
are split in to two branches. Each branch of command and control activity is determined by the unique
response from the remote server. Command and control takes form of a webpage. Unlike malware
designed by the well-known Comment Crew[5], this group does not hide these commands in HTML
comments, but instead places them in plain view. The first set of commands force the malware to behave
as a simple downloader.
(A screenshot showing OrcaRAT parsing the HTML code behind a webpage)
Upon downloading the webpage from the server the malware looks for specific sets of HTML tags. The
first set are  and the terminating tag . Once the malware has found these tags it drops in to the
first command and control function. The malware then extracts the payload text between the HTML tags
and runs it through a decryption routine. The same encryption key that is sent in the URI string is used to
decrypt the text. Once the payload text has been decrypted the malware treats this as a binary executable
file, which is then written to the disk and executed.
The second set of HTML tags allows the operator to drop the malware in to a set of remote control
functions. This time the malware searches for the  tag that is terminated by . Once the payload
text between these tags has been extracted it is then decrypted using the encryption key found in the URI
string. The payload text from this page is much smaller and ultimately points to the command function
that the operator has executed.
(A screenshot showing the structure of the command and control routines within OrcaRAT)
The command and control structure is fairly simplistic but provides the operator with access to the victim
machine’s filesystem and command line, and as such allows the attacker to perform various tasks such as
executing arbitrary commands or uploading and downloading files from the compromised system.
After a command and control message is received, OrcaRAT sends an HTTP POST message back to the
command and control server. Each time that the URI is built it generates a new encryption key, showing
that the command and control server is at least serving dynamic content. Given the command structure
above, it is logical to assume that the command and control server requires an operator to manually issue
specific commands to the victim workstation, with the default command likely being ‘sleep’.
Given the information above we can reasonably assume that this malware was most likely designed as a
first stage implant. History has shown that malware designed in this way is usually done so to allow the
operator an initial level of access to the compromised system, usually for surveying the victim and then
deciding whether to deploy a more capable and valuable second stage malware implant.