DROPPERS – RC4 AND XOR BASED
Other CrowdStrike reporting describes a dropper used by PUTTER PANDA (abc.scr) to install the 4H RAT. This
dropper uses RC4 to decrypt an embedded payload from data in an embedded resource before writing the
payload to disk and executing it. Several instances of this dropper have been observed, most commonly in
association with the 4H RAT, but also in relation to other tools that will be described in forthcoming reporting.
Another dropper has been observed, exclusively installing the pngdowner malware (example MD5 hash
4c50457c35e2033b3a03fcbb4adac7b7). This dropper is simplistic in nature, and is compiled from a single C++
source code file. It contains a Word document in plaintext (written to Bienvenue_a_Sahaja_Yoga_Toulouse.
doc), along with an executable (Update.exe) and DLL (McUpdate.dll). The executable and DLL are both
contained within the .data section of the dropper, obfuscated with a 16-byte XOR key (consisting of the bytes
0xA0 – 0xAF). Screenshot of Truecaller
Database Shared by
DEADEYE JACKAL on Their
Both the document and executable are written to disk and the executed via the ShellExecute API (using the
verb “open”). The executable is also installed into the ASEP registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\ Twitter Account (names
redacted)
CurrentVersion\Run, with a value named McUpdate. Finally, the dropper deletes itself via a batch file.
The dropped executable (MD5 hash 38a2a6782e1af29ca8cb691cf0d29a0d) primarily aims to inject
the specified DLL (McUpdate.dll, MD5 hash 08c7b5501df060ccfc3aa5c8c41b452f) into a process that
would normally be accessing the network, likely in order to disguise the malicious activity. Module names
corresponding to Outlook Express (msinm.exe), Outlook (outlook.exe), Internet Explorer (iexplore.exe), and
Firefox (firefox.exe) are used. If Internet Explorer is used, then the malware will attempt to terminate processes
corresponding to two components of Sophos Anti-Virus (SAVAdminService.exe and SavService.exe).
Four examples of these droppers were located, using a mixture of decoy PDF and Microsoft Word documents
(shown below in Figures 15-18). The common theme throughout these documents is space technology
(Bienvenue_a_Sahaja_Yoga_Toulouse.doc does not follow this trend, but could be targeted at workers at the
Toulouse Space Centre, the “largest space centre in Europe” ), indicating that the attackers have a keen
interest in this sector, which is also reflected in the choice of name for some of the C2 domains used (see the
Attribution section above).
Twitter Account (names
redacted)
16 The API used expects a parameter of the form char, and is given a char pointer to the “/*” string, but the stack data following this
pointer is not properly zeroed or cleansed before use, leading to uncontrolled memory being read as other strings.
35