I Asia, Europe, North America and the Middle East. By March, unprecedented
stay-at-home orders were put into effect around the world to slow the spread of the
disease. Concern over the growing threat of the pandemic made for valuable subject
matter for criminal and targeted intrusion adversaries, who used COVID-19 themes in
phishing campaigns and lures. CrowdStrike Intelligence also identified both eCrime
and targeted intrusion adversaries specifically attacking the healthcare sector
throughout the pandemic.
Targeted Intrusions
In the early days of the pandemic, objectives for targeted intrusion actors may have
included acquiring information on infection rates or country-level responses to the
treatment of COVID-19. However, as the pandemic accelerated, governments were
faced with daunting infection rates, mounting deaths and overburdened hospitals.
The search for a vaccine became of paramount importance, and the scientific
information that could lead to a vaccine for COVID-19 was a high-priority collection
requirement for many targeted intrusion adversaries.
↘
CrowdStrike Intelligence
identified both eCrime and targeted intrusion
adversaries specifically attacking the healthcare sector
throughout the pandemic.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 12
|ActorNorth Korea: LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA|UsedCOVID-19Themes inLures|TargetedHealthcareSector|TargetedGovernmentResponse|
|---|---|---|---|
|North Korea: SILENT CHOLLIMA||||
|North Korea: VELVET CHOLLIMA||||
|Vietnam: OCEAN BUFFALO||||
|Iran: CHARMING KITTEN||||
|Iran: STATIC KITTEN||||
|Russia: COZY BEAR (reported inopen sources)||||
|China: PIRATE PANDA|||(suspected)|
|China: RegionalWave activity cluster||||
Table 1. Summary of Significant Targeted Intrusion Activity Potentially Related to the COVID-19
Pandemic
NORTH KOREA
While VELVET CHOLLIMA and LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA began distributing COVID
19-themed lure documents in April 2020, this type of decoy content did not initially
indicate healthcare sector targeting and instead was aimed at foreign policy officials.
However, in September 2020, Falcon OverWatch detected SILENT CHOLLIMA in
the environment of an Asian pharmaceutical sector organization. One month later,
CrowdStrike Intelligence discovered phishing domains linked to VELVET CHOLLIMA
that appear to spoof U.K., U.S. and South Korean pharmaceutical companies leading
efforts on COVID-19 research. Concurrent with VELVET CHOLLIMA’s phishing
activity, OverWatch detected LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA attempting to infiltrate a U.S.based healthcare provider, and it was subsequently reported in open sources that
LABYRINTH CHOLLIMA likely targeted several pharmaceutical companies involved
with COVID-19 vaccine production.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 13
VIETNAM
CrowdStrike Intelligence identified a significant temporal overlap between Vietnambased OCEAN BUFFALO’s early January 2020 targeting of Chinese private and
government institutions playing critical roles in combating COVID-19, and the
Vietnamese government’s very early and robust response in enacting sweeping
measures to prevent the virus’s spread into the country. The severity and breadth of
Vietnam’s measures stood out, as they began weeks before the first confirmed cases
of COVID-19 in Vietnam and at a time when only two deaths had occurred in China.
IRAN
During early December 2020, CrowdStrike Intelligence identified STATIC KITTEN
targeting a government entity located in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
region. The activity consisted of credential collection via a known variant of Mimikatz,
lateral movement, and the probable staging of documents related to COVID-19 for
exfiltration. The healthcare sector has been a target of STATIC KITTEN since January
2020, suggesting that the adversary’s priorities in 2020 included an expanded focus
on health-related topics even prior to the outbreak of COVID-19.
RUSSIA
In July 2020, the U.S., U.K. and Canadian governments released information describing
a COZY BEAR campaign that targeted COVID-19 research facilities. This campaign
was reportedly conducted throughout 2020 and was likely intended to steal
information relating to the development and testing of vaccines targeting the virus.
CHINA
In July 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) indicted two Chinese nationals
with alleged ties to the Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS) for wide-ranging
cyber operations, the most recent of which reportedly included targeting U.S.based COVID-19 research centers. Intelligence officials in Spain also claimed that a
China-nexus actor had successfully stolen information relating to COVID-19 vaccine
development from Spanish research institutes in September 2020. In addition to
this reported activity, CrowdStrike identified five suspected China-origin campaigns
targeting healthcare entities in 2020.
eCrime
BGH TARGETING HEALTHCARE SECTOR
Even under normal operating conditions, the healthcare vertical faces a significant
threat from criminal groups deploying ransomware, the consequences of which
can include the disruption of critical care facilities. Along with the possibility of
significant disruption to critical functions, victims face a secondary threat from
ransomware operations that exfiltrate data prior to the execution of the ransomware,
a trend observed across all sectors throughout 2020 (see the section “Big Game
Hunters Adopt Data Extortion Methods”).
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 14
↘
WIZARD SPIDER
actively targeted the
healthcare sector in Q4
2019, and the rise of Ryuk
infections in October 2020
demonstrated a repetition
in targeting preferences.
Similarly, this adversary
focused on the academic
sector during September
October 2019 and again
in 2020 as students
were returning to school
following summer vacation.
These trends indicate
a degree of planning by
WIZARD SPIDER to target
certain verticals at times of
the year when ransomware
campaigns would have the
most significant impact.
Even in a non-pandemic
year, Q4 targeting of the
healthcare sector would
coincide with the start of
the cold and flu season.
25
20
15
10
5
0
Amid the pandemic, the healthcare sector proved to be a controversial target among
BGH operators. Some adversaries — including TWISTED SPIDER, VIKING SPIDER,
GRACEFUL SPIDER and TRAVELING SPIDER — publicly announced intentions to
avoid targeting frontline healthcare entities. Others, including DOPPEL SPIDER,
said that any unintentional infections against a healthcare provider would be quickly
resolved by providing decryption keys without requiring payment. An incident
affecting a Germany-based hospital triggered such a response in September
2020. Despite these assertions, CrowdStrike Intelligence confirmed that 18 BGH
ransomware families infected 104 healthcare organizations in 2020, with the most
prolific being TWISTED SPIDER using Maze, and WIZARD SPIDER using Conti . In
some cases, adversaries may have avoided targeting hospitals, but proceeded with
attacks against pharmaceutical and biomedical companies.
As depicted in Figure 3, TWISTED SPIDER achieved at least 26 infections at
healthcare sector victims with their Maze and Egregor ransomware families,
predominantly at U.S.-based entities. WIZARD SPIDER conducted 25 attacks
against the healthcare industry with both Conti and Ryuk . Throughout October
2020, Ryuk was heavily attributed to a large number of infections against U.S.-based
healthcare entities, a surge that occurred despite a concerted disruption effort by
cybersecurity vendors in September 2020. This surge also prompted a response by
law enforcement on Oct. 28, 2020, when the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) issued an alert warning of attacks involving WIZARD SPIDER’s TrickBot leading
to ransomware infections and disruption to healthcare services.
HEALTHCARE VICTIMS BY RANSOMWARE FAMILY IN 2020
↙ Infection Count
↖
Ransomware Family
Figure 3. Confirmed Healthcare Sector Victim Count by Ransomware Family in 2020
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 15
TRENDS IN ECRIME PHISHING THEMES
Social engineering techniques are frequently used by criminally motivated threat
actors to tailor phishing campaigns, malspam emails and fraudulent scams. The
psychology behind many of these techniques is to prey on human emotions and
behavior, the most exploitable of which are greed, curiosity, fear and the desire to
help. The COVID-19 pandemic provided criminal actors with a unique opportunity to
use lure content and social engineering techniques capable of targeting each of these
components of human behavior. As a topic, COVID-19 has global impact, 24-hour news
coverage and as of this writing, no clear end in sight.
Pandemic-Related eCrime Phishing Themes
Exploitation of individuals looking for details on disease tracking, testing and treatment
Impersonation of medical bodies, including the World Health Organization (WHO) and U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Financial assistance and government stimulus packages
Tailored attacks against employees working from home
Scams offering personal protective equipment (PPE)
Passing mention of COVID-19 within previously used phishing lure content (e.g., deliveries,
invoices and purchase orders)
Table 2. eCrime Phishing Themes Referencing COVID-19
Like pre-pandemic phishing campaigns, these attacks attempted to encourage a
human response — either to interact with a hyperlink or attachment to an email, or
to attract visitor traffic via online searches. By the summer of 2020, criminal actors
began to return to previously popular lure content, albeit with some references to
COVID-19 added.
Outlook
COVID-19 has significantly impacted economic, social, religious, business and political
spheres. The numerous targeted intrusion operations against healthcare sector
entities underscore the value that vaccine-related intellectual property had in 2020
and going forward. With the recent authorization and release of vaccines, vaccination
rollout plans will likely become a target of intelligence-gathering efforts by statesponsored adversaries in 2021. Variations on COVID-19 themes arising this year will
likely include lure content referencing vaccinations or new variants of the disease.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 16
StellarParticle Conducts
Supply Chain Attack
and Abuses O365
Targeted Industries
n Dec. 13, 2020, public reporting revealed details of a sophisticated
supply chain attack against the update deployment mechanism
of the SolarWinds Orion IT management software. The adversary