2.3 Board analysis
The main component of any modern electronics is printed circuit boards (PCBs) carrying electronic components
such as integrated circuits, connectors, and passive components. By analyzing these boards, we could spot any
differences and similarities between devices of the same family in the hope of gaining insight into what
modifications were done by the counterfeiters.
The overall board layout of the three devices was similar, with the Genuine unit and Counterfeit B sharing more
similarities in appearance. When observed in detail, however, it was possible to verify modifications for forgery
purposes, and the differences are significant.
The absence of a holographic sticker on the counterfeit units was immediately noticeable. While its presence on
the Genuine unit was not a guarantee of authenticity, its absence typically indicated a counterfeit.
Figure 3. Legitimate holographic sticker which was absent on both counterfeit units.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 5
PUBLIC
PUBLIC
PUBLIC
PUBLIC
The Flash part numbers were found to be different, albeit both identifying 1Gbit parallel NOR Flash devices. The
Genuine unit had Spansion p/n S29GL01GS11TFIV1 installed, while the counterfeit devices were installed with
Micron/Intel p/n JS28F00AM29EWH. This could be attributed to the fact that the Genuine unit was identified
as V5 while the counterfeits were V1. It is hard to say without comparing devices of the same version whether
this was an indicator. It could also be the result of the manufacturer swapping in cheaper parts.
Figure 7. U8, an 1Gbit NOR Flash. PCB rework evidence on the Counterfeit A unit: soldering flux residue on
and around the Flash IC is present.
What was more concerning, was the presence of PCB rework traces around the Flash IC on the Counterfeit A
unit. While it could be the case the unit was legitimately repaired, no record of such activity was found via
available sources. This led us to conclude that, at some point, the Flash chip had been replaced. This may have
been part of legitimate repair activities; however, it is not typical for legitimate repair shops to leave flux residues
on the board.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 9
PUBLIC