Recommended defenses
The following are recommended defenses security operations teams can take to mitigate the
impact of threats like GALLIUM in your corporate environment:
Maintain web server patching and log audits, run web services with minimum required
operating system permissions
Install security updates on all applications and operating systems promptly. Check the
Security Update Guide for detailed information about available Microsoft security updates.
For efficient incident response, maintain a forensics-ready network with centralized event
logging, file detonation services, and up-to-date asset inventories.
Enable cloud-delivered protection and maintain updated antivirus.
Turn on cloud-delivered protection and automatic sample submission on Windows
Defender Antivirus. These capabilities use artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to
quickly identify and stop new and unknown threats.
Use behavior detection solutions to catch credential dumping or other activity that may
indicate a breach.
Adopt Azure ATP—a cloud-based security solution that leverages your on-premises Active
Directory signals—to identify, detect, and investigate advanced threats, compromised
identities, and malicious insider actions directed at your organization.
Use Microsoft Defender ATP to help enterprise networks prevent, detect, investigate, and
respond to advanced threats. Educate users about protecting personal and business
information in social media, filtering unsolicited communication, identifying lures in spear
phishing email and watering holes, and reporting of reconnaissance attempts and other
suspicious activity.
Encourage users to use Microsoft Edge and other web browsers that support SmartScreen,
which identifies and blocks malicious websites, including phishing sites, scam sites, and
sites that contain exploits and host malware.
Institute Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) to mitigate against compromised accounts.
Note : Microsoft strongly encourages all customers download and use passwordless
solutions like the Microsoft Authenticator app or Windows Hello to secure your
accounts.
For Office 365 users, see MFA support.
For consumer and personal email accounts, see how to use two-step verification.