VERIS framework
Overview
Vocabulary for Event Recording
and Incident Sharing (VERIS) is a
set of metrics designed to provide
a common language for describing
security incidents in a structured and
repeatable manner.
VERIS was crafted as a response to
one of the most critical and persistent
challenges in the security industry—a
lack of quality information.
VERIS targets this problem by helping
organizations to collect useful incidentrelated information and to share
it—anonymously and responsibly—
with others. The overall goal is to
lay a foundation from which we can
constructively and cooperatively learn
from our experiences to better measure
and manage risk.
A4 threat model
VERIS employs the A4 threat model,
which was developed originally by the
Verizon RISK Team (now known as
VTRAC). In the A4 threat model, an
incident is viewed as a series of events
that adversely affect the information
assets of an organization. The A4
threat model elements are:

Actors: Whose actions affected

the asset?

Actions: What actions affected

the asset?


Assets: Which assets were affected?


Attributes: How were assets affected?


Threat actors
Entities causing or contributing to an
incident are referred to as threat actors.
External actors: External threats
originate from sources outside of
the organization and its network of
partners. Typically, no trust or privilege
is implied for external entities.
Internal actors: Internal threats
originate from within the organization.
Insiders are trusted and privileged
(some more than others).
Partner actors: Partners include any
third party that shares a business
relationship with the organization. Some
level of trust and privilege is usually
implied between business partners and
the organizations.
Threat actions
Threat actors conduct threat actions
to cause or contribute to an incident.
VERIS uses seven primary categories
for threat actions: Malware, Hacking,
Social, Misuse, Physical, Error and
Environmental. For this report, we
focus on four: Misuse, Social, Hacking
and Malware.
Misuse: Using entrusted organizational
resources or privileges for any
purpose or manner contrary to that
which was intended
Social: Employing tactics such as
deception, manipulation and intimidation
to exploit the human element, or users,
of information assets
Hacking: Attempting to intentionally
access or harm information assets,
without (or exceeding) authorization,
by circumventing or thwarting logical
security mechanisms
Malware: Any malicious software, script
or code that runs on a device to alter
its state or function without the owner’s
informed consent
Assets and attributes
A compromised asset is one that
suffers from any loss of confidentiality/
possession, integrity/authenticity or
availability/utility (primary security
attributes of the expanded CIA Triad). An
incident can involve multiple assets and
affect multiple attributes (each of which
contains different metrics) of those assets.
Additional resources
Further information on VERIS can be
obtained from these resources:
• DBIR facts, figures and data: github.
com/vz-risk/dbir/tree/gh-pages/2020
• VERIS framework: veriscommunity.net

VERIS schema:

github.com/vz-risk/veris

VERIS Community Database (VCDB):

github.com/vz-risk/vcdb
40 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report