Payload – In Depth Analysis
To recap, the second stage payload in the attack chain, is an encrypted DLL file named
minisdllpub.dll . The DLL, downloaded from 95.179.242[.]6, is a downloader for an
additional payload. In the following section, we go over its implementation and highlight the
characteristics which are unique to this payload.
Minisdllpub.dll begins by creating a mutex with the name Afx:DV3ControlHost . This is a
unique indicator that can later be used to hunt for more samples in the wild. It then defines a
structure of size 0x5f8 to store system and environment information such as the name of the
running computer, IP addresses, the username, and OS Version. Next, another structure of size
0x3FC is created, this time to store pointers to loaded DLLs and API functions, as well as the
command and control IP address ( 95.179.242[.]27 ) and port ( 443 ).
After setting up these structures, the flow continues and a new thread is created. First, it fetches
several lists of API functions, and dynamically loads them. As can be seen in the following image,
each list is comprised of the name of a library followed by a sequence of API functions to load
from this library. Pointers to these functions are then added to the previous structure which are
used to dynamically invoke them when needed.
Comma-separated lists of API functions, prepended with the library name
The second stage payload then sets up HTTP or HTTPS communication, depends on several
checks, and starts communicating with its remote control in new threads. When the server replies,
it sends XOR encoded DLL to the malware, with the key 0x51 . Minisdllpub.dll then
decodes the given payload and dynamically loads the new PE to memory.
When loaded, it searches for an export function with the name e. The malware then keeps
listening to commands from the server, and when those are received, it passes them to the "e"
function of the newly loaded payload. By doing so, the second-stage is operating as a middleman between the C&C and the final payload – a remote access tool.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/vicious-panda-the-covid-campaign/ 10/15
3/16/2020 Vicious Panda: The COVID Campaign - Check Point Research
The malware is searching for the export function “e”, in order to invoke it
At this point, we have a unique layout of modules loaded on the victim’s computer. First, is the
Minisdllpub.dll that was initially loaded using Rundll32 by http_dll.dll
( intel.wll ) when a Microsoft Office application was executed. Next, we have the RAT payload
itself which receives its control commands not directly from the C&C, but through
Minisdllpub.dll that acts as a mediator.
Loader execution flow
Interestingly, in addition to the commands to execute, Minisdllpub.dll also passes several
structures to the final payload. The structures which were previously built and filled, are now used
by the RAT to dynamically invoke API functions and deliver data to the C&C server. This unique
approach of re-using function pointers that were loaded in the previous module makes the
analyzing the RAT hardly possible without having the previous stage as well.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/vicious-panda-the-covid-campaign/ 11/15
3/16/2020 Vicious Panda: The COVID Campaign - Check Point Research
The supported functionalities of the final payload, as well as the respective commands it receives
and sends, are described in the table in Appendix A.