Utilizing Cyber Kill Chain for Analysis
DHS analysts leverage the Cyber Kill Chain model to analyze, discuss, and dissect malicious
cyber activity. The phases of the Cyber Kill Chain are Reconnaissance, Weaponization,
Delivery, Exploitation, Installation, Command and Control, and Actions on the Objective. This
section will provide a high-level overview of GRIZZLY STEPPE activity within this framework.
Reconnaissance
GRIZZLY STEPPE actors use various reconnaissance methods to determine the best attack
vector for compromising their targets. These methods include network vulnerability scanning,
credential harvesting, and using “doppelganger” (also known as “typo-squatting”) domains to
target victim organizations. The doppelganger domains can be used for reconnaissance when
users incorrectly type in the web address in a browser or as part of delivery as a URL in the body
of a phishing emails. DHS recommends that network defenders review and monitor their
networks for traffic to sites that look similar to their own domains. This can be an indicator of
compromise that should trigger further research to determine whether a breach has occurred.
Often, these doppelganger sites are registered to suspicious IP addresses. For example, a site
pretending to be an organization’s User Log In resolving to a TOR node IP address may be
considered suspicious and should be researched by the organization’s security operations center
(SOC) for signs of users navigating to that site. Because these doppelganger sites normally
mimic the targeted victim’s domain, they were not included in JAR-16-20296.
Before the 2016 U.S. election, DHS observed network scanning activity that is known as
reconnaissance. The IPs identified performed vulnerability scans attempting to identify websites
that are vulnerable to cross-site scripting (XSS) or Structured Query Language (SQL) injection
attacks. When GRIZZLY STEPPE actors identify a vulnerable site, they can then attempt to
exploit the identified vulnerabilities to gain access to the targeted network. Network perimeter
scans are often a precursor to network attacks and DHS recommends that security analysts
identify the types of scans carried out against their perimeters. This information can aid security
analysts in identifying and patching vulnerabilities in their systems.
Another common method used by GRIZZLY STEPPE is to host credential-harvesting pages as
seen in Step 4 and Step 5 of the GRIZZLY STEPPE attack lifecycle graphic. This technique
includes hosting a temporary website in publicly available infrastructure (i.e., neutral space) that
users are directed to via spear-phishing emails. Users are tricked into entering their credentials in
these temporary sites, and GRIZZLY STEPPE actors gain legitimate credentials for users on the
targeted network.
4 of 56 4 of 56 TLP:WHITE
Weaponization
GRIZZLY STEPPE actors have excelled at embedding malicious code into a number of file
types as part of their weaponization efforts. In 2014, it was reported that GRIZZLY STEPPE
actors were wrapping legitimate executable files with malware (named “OnionDuke”) to
increase the chance of bypassing security controls. Since weaponization actions occur within the
adversary space, there is little that can be detected by security analysts during this phase. APT28
and APT29 weaponization methods have included:


Code injects in websites as watering hole attacks


Malicious macros in Microsoft Office files


Malicious Rich Text Format (RTF) files with embedded malicious flash code


Delivery
As described in JAR-16-20296 and numerous publicly available resources, GRIZZLY STEPPE
actors traditionally use spear-phishing emails to deliver malicious attachments or URLs that lead
to malicious payloads. DHS recommends that network defenders conduct analysis of their
systems to identify potentially malicious emails involving variations on GRIZZLY STEPPE
themes. Inbound emails subjects should be reviewed for the following commonly employed
titles, text, and themes:


efax, e-Fax, efax #100345 (random sequence of numbers)


PDF, PFD, Secure PDF


Topics from current events (e.g., “European Parliament statement on…”)


Fake Microsoft Outlook Web Access (OWA) log-in emails


Invites for cyber threat events


Additionally, GRIZZLY STEPPE actors have infected pirated software in torrent services and
leveraged TOR exit nodes to deliver to malware since at least 2014. These actors are capable of
compromising legitimate domains and services to host and deliver malware in an attempt to
obscure their delivery methods. DHS notes that the majority of TOR traffic is not GRIZZLY
STEPPE activity. The existence of a TOR IP in a network log only indicates that network
administrators should review the related traffic to determine if it is legitimate activity for that
specific environment.
Exploitation
GRIZZLY STEPPE actors have developed malware to exploit a number of Common
Vulnerability and Exposures (CVEs). DHS assesses that these actors commonly target Microsoft
Office exploits due to the high likelihood of having this software installed on the targeted hosts.
5 of 56 5 of 56 TLP:WHITE
While not all-encompassing, the following CVEs have been targeted by GRIZZLY STEPPE
actors in past attacks.


CVE-2016-7855: Adobe Flash Player Use-After-Free Vulnerability


CVE-2016-7255: Microsoft Windows Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability


CVE-2016-4117: Adobe Flash Player Remoted Attack Vulnerability


CVE-2015-1641: Microsoft Office Memory Corruption Vulnerability


CVE-2015-2424: Microsoft PowerPoint Memory Corruption Vulnerability


CVE-2014-1761: Microsoft Office Denial of Service (Memory Corruption)


CVE-2013-2729: Integer Overflow in Adobe Reader and Acrobat vulnerability


CVE-2012-0158: ActiveX Corruption Vulnerability for Microsoft Office


CVE-2010-3333: RTF Stack Buffer Overflow Vulnerability for Microsoft Office


CVE-2009-3129: Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Remote Attacks


Installation
GRIZZLY STEPPE actors have leveraged several different types of implants in the past.
Analysts can research these implants by reviewing open-source reporting on malware families
including Sofacy, and Onion Duke. Recently, DHS analyzed 17 PHP files, 3 executables, and 1
RTF file attributed to GRIZZLY STEPPE actors and the findings are located in MIFR10105049-Update2 (updated on 1/26/2017). The PHP files are web shells designed to provide a
user interface for various remote operations. The RTF file is a malicious document designed to
install and execute a malicious executable. DHS recommends that security analysts review their
systems for unauthorized web shells.
Command and Control
GRIZZLY STEPPE actors leverage their installed malware through Command and Control (C2)
infrastructure, which they traditionally develop via compromised sites and publicly available
infrastructure, such as TOR. C2 IOCs are traditionally the IP addresses or domains that are
leveraged to send and receive commands to and from malware implants.
Actions on the Objective
GRIZZLY STEPPE actors have leveraged their malware in multiple campaigns with various end
goals. GRIZZLY STEPPE actors are capable of utilizing their malware to conduct extensive data
exfiltration of sensitive files, emails, and user credentials. Security operation center (SOC)
analysts may be able to detect actions on the objective before data exfiltration occurs by looking
for signs of files and user credential movement within their network.
6 of 56 6 of 56 TLP:WHITE