Operation Manul
​ 3
In 2015, EFF’s clients in the Respublika litigation were the targets of several spearphishing
attempts they had received via email (Fig. 1). We analyzed these emails and discovered
that they contained malware, which appeared to be coming from a single actor as part of
an ongoing targeted hacking campaign which we have named “Operation Manul.” Over
​ case
the last year Operation Manul has repeatedly targeted our clients in the Respublika
(Irina Petrushova and Alexander Petrushov), their known associates and family members,
and other dissidents involved in litigation with the government of Kazakhstan in
Europeans courts, as well as their family members, associates, and attorneys.
We were also able to observe links between Operation Manul and a malware campaign
targeting the family of Mukhtar Ablyazov, co-founder of the Democratic Choice of
Kazakhstan, a party opposed to the ​authoritarian rule of Kazakhstan’s President
. ​ ​
Nursultan Nazarbayev Ablyazov is currently fighting extradition from France, where he
lives in exile, to Nazarbayev-allied Russia. In May 2013, Ablyazov's wife, Alma
Shalabaeva, and 6-year-old daughter, Alua Ablyazova, were taken into custody by Italian
police and forcibly deported despite having legal British and European residence permits.
Within 72 hours, they were on a private jet hired by the Kazakh embassy, and taken to
Almaty, Kazakhstan’s capital. Ablyazov and his supporters have characterized this move
as a “kidnapping” and “political hostage-taking” ordered by President Nazabayev.
Spearphishing emails and malware sent to the family and their associates during this
period may have been intended to help track Alma and Alua’s movements in preparation
for this incident.
3 https://www.eff.org/cases/kazakhstan-v-does
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION EFF.ORG 4
Fig. 1 A spearphishing email sent to Alexander Petrushov. The title of the document “Atabayev
Invoice” may refer to Bolat Atabayev, a Khazakh dissident and theater director who was also
targeted in this campaign.
In an appeal filed with a Swiss court earlier this year, members of Ablyazov’s family
allege that they have been targeted by a campaign of spearphishing emails containing
malware going back to 2012. The campaign against Ablyazov’s family, attorneys, and
associates used the same malware as we found in Operation Manul, and sometimes used
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION EFF.ORG 5
the exact same emails as the emails sent to EFF’s ​ Respublika clients and their associates,
on the same dates. Additionally, analysis by GovCERT of other spearphishing emails
sent to Ablyazov’s family and associates in 2015 concludes that the malware uses the
kaliex.net domain and covertly installs Bandook. For this reason we believe both groups
are targets of Operation Manul.
​
​
Fig 2. The PDF document from the spearphishing email entices the victim to download a fake
update to acrobat.
Operation Manul appears to primarily use two different commercially available malware
families: JRat and Bandook.