History of Supply Chain Compromises
Supply chain compromises are most likely an extension
of APT41's tactics used in gaining access to gaming
development environments and to other gaming
organizations via third-party service providers. Public
reports of supply chain compromises linked to APT41 date
back to at least 2014, and technical evidence associated
with these incidents was used to determine a relationship,
if any, with APT41. Our assessment in each of these cases
is noted in Table 1.

As demonstrated in operations targeting the video

game industry, APT41 leverages a variety of TTPs to
access production environments where they can inject
malicious code into legitimate files. The files are signed
with valid code-signing certificates and distributed
widely to end users.

Supply chain targeting requires more effort than

typically observed mass targeting methods, such as
establishing a strategic web compromise (SWC) or
conducting large spear-phishing campaigns.
Table 1. Supply chain compromises.
Although APT41 supply chain compromises affect very
large numbers of victims, the group limits follow-on
activity to select victims most likely to reduce detection
and ensure any additional malware is delivered only
to intended victims. Counterintuitively, supply chain
operations add an additional layer of obscurity to the
group's operations because it is difficult to pinpoint the
desired target set.

In a June 2018 supply chain compromise, APT41

leveraged MAC addresses and C:\ drive volume serial
numbers to identify specifically targeted victims for
follow-on activity. This significantly obfuscates the
targeted sector or victim set; in a typical spear-phishing
campaign, for example, desired targeting can be
discerned based on recipients' email addresses.
Date Compromised Entities FireEye Attribution Assessment
Online games distributed by a Southeast
Asian video game distributor
Possibly APT41 or a close affiliate
December 2014


Path of Exile


League of Legends


FIFA Online 3


March 2017 CCleaner Utility Unconfirmed APT41
July 2017 Netsarang software packages (aka ShadowPad) Confirmed APT41
June 2018 - November 2018 ASUS Live Update utility (aka ShadowHammer) Stage 1 unconfirmed APT41
Reported Stage 2 confirmed APT41
July 2018
Southeast Asian video game distributor
Infestation
PointBlank
Confirmed APT41
22 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION