Background
In mid-2014, a number of public disclosures by security researchers highlighted the activity of a
threat group that CTU™ researchers refer to as IRON LIBERTY. This group had been active
since at least 2010. Although its targeting was broad, it had a specific interest in the energy
sector, including energy companies and organizations financing the energy sector, in the U.S. and
Europe. The longevity of the threat group's campaign, the nature of the targeting, and active
development of a custom toolset strongly suggested the group was resourced and operated by a
government. Technical indicators coupled with IRON LIBERTY's focus on the energy sector,
especially in Europe, led CTU researchers to assess that IRON LIBERTY was likely operated by
or on behalf of the Russian government. This focus on energy organizations, including suppliers,
could align with Russian government intelligence priorities in support of its energy export-based
economy.
Prior to 2014, IRON LIBERTY used custom malware, primarily Sysmain, Havex, and xFrost (now
known as Karagany), combined with commodity penetration testing and tools. IRON LIBERTY
was known for compromising targets via strategic web compromises (SWCs) using a custom
exploit kit, through spearphishing campaigns, and by trojanizing legitimate installers that are then
hosted on legitimate vendor app stores. In 2014, the group embedded Havex into legitimate
remote management software for ICS and created industrial control scanning and enumeration
modules.
Public disclosures in 2014 revealed likely IRON LIBERTY activity. The group was reportedly
involved with breaches of Norwegian oil and gas companies. It was also deemed responsible for
similar compromises in the U.S., the UK, and Canada. CTU researchers assessed that IRON
https://www.secureworks.com/research/resurgent-iron-liberty-targeting-energy-sector 1/7
1/14/2020 Resurgent Iron Liberty Targeting Energy Sector | Secureworks
LIBERTY's goal was to gather intelligence on the energy sector (particularly in Europe) to assist
Russian government and corporate decision-making, and to gain access to energy-linked ICS for
early-stage reconnaissance and potentially as pre-positioning for sabotage operations.
Government-affiliated threat groups are typically not deterred by public disclosures, so CTU
researchers expected IRON LIBERTY to reemerge with new malware and infrastructure.
The plugins deployed by Karagany malware compiled in 2018 contain links and similarities to
tools used by the IRON LYRIC threat group (also known as TeamSpy) in 2012 and 2013,
suggesting that IRON LYRIC and IRON LIBERTY share at least some of their codebase. IRON
LYRIC was last active in 2013, and CTU analysis suggests that it was operated by a Russian
intelligence service. The group covertly installed the TeamViewer desktop-sharing tool to surveil
individuals.