Scope Note
This paper presents a comprehensive open source assessment of China’s capability
to conduct computer network operations (CNO) both during peacetime and periods of
conflict. The result will hopefully serve as useful reference to policymakers, China
specialists, and information operations professionals. The research for this project
encompassed five broad categories to show how the People’s Republic of China
(PRC) is pursuing computer network operations (CNO) and the extent to which it is
being implemented by examining:
a) The PLA‘s strategy for computer network operations at the campaign and
strategic level to understand how China is integrating this capability into overall
planning efforts and operationalizing it among its field units;
b) Who are the principal institutional and individual “actors” in Chinese CNO and
what linkages may exist between the civilian and military operators;
c) Possible targets of Chinese CNO against the US during a conflict to
understand how the PLA might attempt to seize information control over the
US or similar technologically advanced military during a conflict;
d) The characteristics of ongoing network exploitation activities targeting the US
Government and private sector that are frequently attributed to China;
e) A timeline of alleged Chinese intrusions into US government and industry
networks to provide broader context for these activities.
The basis for this work was a close review of authoritative open source PLA writings,
interviews with Western PLA and information warfare analysts, reviews of Western
scholarship on these subjects, and forensic analysis of intrusions into US networks
assessed to have Chinese origins. The research draws heavily from journals and
articles published by the Chinese National Defense University and the Academy of
Military Sciences, the military’s highest authority for issues of doctrine, strategy, and
force modernization. Many of these publications offer substantive insights into
current thinking on strategy and doctrinal issues related to information warfare and
CNO. Additional insights into the role of information warfare in broader campaign
doctrine and strategy came from The Science of Military Strategy, The Science of
Campaigns, two of the most authoritative sources on the subject available in the open
press. The military’s official newspaper, The PLA Daily, and a range of Chinese
military journals, official media, provincial and local media as well as non-PRC
regional media, all provided data on information warfare (IW) training events.
4
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
Technical assessments of operational tradecraft observed in intrusions attributed to
China are the result of extensive forensic analysis and discussions with information
security professionals who follow these issues closely. A review of Chinese technical
journal articles on computer network attack and exploitation techniques also aided
this study. This research was obtained from online Chinese databases accessible in
the US.
A regular review of the contents and discussions posted on Chinese hacker Websites
contributed to the analysis of these groups’ activities and capabilities. The focus of
this effort was to identify possible interactions between members of these groups and
the government. Conversations with Western information security analysts who
closely follow these groups and actors contributed immensely to focusing the
research and greatly aided our understanding of China’s hacker communities.
This study was not scoped to include research in China, consequently, the authors
focused on the materials and insights presently available outside of China. Additional
in-country research on this subject is an avenue of future effort that can—and
should—supplement the work presented here.
5
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation