Victims
This campaign has been ongoing since at least mid-October 2019, right up to the beginning
of October 2020, with the attack group active on the networks of some of its victims for close
to a year. The campaign is very wide-ranging, with victims in a large number of regions
worldwide.
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/cicada-apt10-japan-espionage 2/9
11/19/2020 Japan-Linked Organizations Targeted in Long-Running and Sophisticated Attack Campaign | Symantec Blogs
Figure 1. Locations of some of the companies targeted in this campaign; most of those targeted have links
to Japan or Japanese organizations
The companies hit are, in the main, large, well-known organizations, many of which have
links to Japan or Japanese companies, which is one of the main factors tying the victims
together. Cicada has been known to have a strong focus on Japanese organizations in
previous attack campaigns. As is clear from the map in Figure 1, South and East Asia are
strong areas of focus for the attackers in this campaign. It is unusual to see a reportedly
Chinese-government-linked group attacking companies within China’s borders but, like
many of the companies targeted in this campaign, the target in that instance is a subsidiary
of a Japanese organization.
We also saw similar loaders on all the victim networks. These are among the main factors
linking these victims together, with all of them coming from a wide variety of sectors,
including:
Automotive, with some manufacturers and organizations involved in supplying parts to
the motor industry also targeted, indicating that this is a sector of strong interest to the
attackers
Clothing
Conglomerates
Electronics
Engineering
General Trading Company
Government
Industrial Products
Managed Service Providers
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/cicada-apt10-japan-espionage 3/9
11/19/2020 Japan-Linked Organizations Targeted in Long-Running and Sophisticated Attack Campaign | Symantec Blogs
Manufacturing
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
The amount of time the attackers spent on the networks of victims varied, with the attackers
spending a significant amount of time on the networks of some victims, while spending just
days on other victim networks. In some cases, too, the attackers spent some time on a
network but then the activity would cease, but start again some months later.