Steps you can take today
Based on the information learned from the research and intelligence described in this report, we recommend
organizations take a proactive approach to shoring up their security and resiliency by using the following controls.
While all these learnings are valid and beneficial recommendations for a cybersecurity program, we’ve selected
our most salient points for each chapter and mapped them with icons as shown below.
ity and the Remote
Workforce.
Icons representing a
ll three chapters:
State of Cybercri
me, Nation State
Threats, and Secur
Actionable learnings Chapter mapping
Adopt MFA
Multi-factor authentication can stop credential-based attacks dead in their tracks. Without access to the additional factor, the attacker
can’t access the account or protected resource. MFA should be mandatory for all admin accounts and is strongly recommended for all
users. The preferred method is to use an authenticator app rather than SMS or voice where possible.
Go passwordless
For organizations that use modern technologies like Windows 10, we recommend going passwordless by using face authentication,
fingerprints, or a PIN code. For organizations with applications or workloads that can’t be transitioned to passwordless, we recommend
adopting a secure password management solution, such as a password locker or vault and requiring that employees use unique,
randomized passwords for access to all sensitive information and on all servers and devices, including IoT and IoT controllers and network
infrastructure such as switches, routers, and firewalls.Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 73
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY
Actionable learnings Chapter mapping
Use good email hygiene
Because 90% of attacks start with an email, preventing phishing (and its voicemail- and text-based variants, vishing and SMiShing) can
limit the opportunity for attackers to succeed. Email hygiene platforms that incorporate filtering on the way in and link checking, like
Safelinks, when clicked (the way out) provide the most comprehensive protection. Consider limiting or disabling autoforwarding for email
unless you have a strong business need for it.
Modernize VPN architectures
Virtual private networks enable secure communications back to a central point. However, most organizations have transitioned significant
amounts of workloads to the cloud, making it unnecessary to point 100% of traffic back to the corporate VPN concentrator. A split tunnel
allows cloud traffic to connect to cloud resources securely, reducing load and overhead on the corporate VPN.
Patch apps and systems
Vendors are continually making security improvements and fixes, so it’s important to ensure that apps or platforms are using the most up-to
date versions, including patches for existing VPN architectures. Ransomware operators and nation state actors have found network devices
like gateway and VPN appliances to be a practical target for intrusion. Apply all available security updates for VPN and firewall configurations.
Monitor and pay special attention to remote access infrastructure. Any detections from security products or anomalies found in event logs
should be investigated immediately. In the event of a compromise, ensure that any account used on these devices has a password reset
because the credentials could have been exfiltrated.
Manage configuration changes
Misconfigurations are another prominent attack vector and an example of how small changes can result in big problems. Implementing a
robust change management program enables companies to review changes before they’re made and confirm that the change won’t open
a new attack path or otherwise put the organization at risk.
Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 74
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY
Actionable learnings Chapter mapping
Implement a secure software development lifecycle
Every organization is engaged in software development, whether they write it themselves or purchase it from a vendor. Even if robust
controls are in place lower in the stack, the organization is at risk if the app layer isn’t secure. We recommend a robust software
development lifecycle that includes threat modeling, design reviews, and static and dynamic application testing, in addition to penetration
testing in production.
Take a 3-2-1 approach to backups
Backups are essential for resilience after an organization has been breached. Apply the 3-2-1 rule for maximum protection and availability:
3 copies, original + 2 backups, 2 storage types, and 1 offsite or cold copy.
Monitor cross-cloud security
Most companies today use multiple cloud providers, and without visibility across all the clouds, including the IaaS and SaaS layers,
organizations don’t have a complete view of their risk profile. Modern SOCs should leverage SIEM tools that can collect and analyze
signals from all clouds in use and leverage a cloud access security broker (CASB) as appropriate for audit and control of SaaS.
Limit access with least privilege
To limit the risk of intentional, and unintentional, insider risk, practice the principle of least privilege and maintain good credential hygiene.
Avoid the use of domain-wide, admin-level service accounts. Restricting local administrative privileges can help limit installation of remote
access trojans and other unwanted applications.
Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 75
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS GLOSSARY
Actionable learnings Chapter mapping
Leverage machine learning to increase fidelity and reduce alert fatigue
The explosion of data and signals has overwhelmed many SOCs and analysts. Look for modern SIEMs that use technologies like machine
learning to reduce the false positives and bubble up the alerts that really matter. ML can also help identify attackers that are using
behavioral-based attacks that might not be detected by traditional, rules-based systems.
Closely monitor legacy, certified, and industrial control systems
Keeping operating systems and apps patched and up to date is the best way to protect them. However, some systems can’t be upgraded
or patched owing to restrictions like certification levels or business limitations. For devices and apps that can’t be patched or upgraded,
additional monitoring can be tuned to keep a closer eye on access and behavior of legacy devices. Segmentation (covered below) is also
an important control here.
Slow attacks with network segmentation
When vulnerabilities are found on a number of systems, an attack can rip through a flat network in a matter of minutes. Additionally,
devices and systems with highly sensitive data often need to be protected at higher levels of control. Segmenting networks provides
security to limit the spread of attacks and enables organizations to place stricter controls in front of sensitive enclaves. Segmentation can
also help to protect unpatched or unpatchable systems from attack.
Network design