2019
LONDON
2 – 4 October 2019


RA6XMX (Clean Master)


resur


All


NEuVxP (updateplayer)


bjAVX1 (updateplayer2018)


The meaning of this menu is not completely clear but we suspect that it refers to a fi lter as to how the
victim was infected, since all the options refer to Android applications. This theory was confi rmed
later when it was found that each botnet operator has its own ‘Flow id’ to determine how many
infections they produced. After accessing the main C&C web page the botmaster requested to fi lter
the victims by their online status using the following request:
/stuff .php?mode=fi lter_online
After the victims were sorted by online status, the botmaster sorted them by balance amount using
the following request:
/stuff .php?mode=fi lter_balance
These two actions suggest that the intention was to see the online victims that have the largest
balance of money, probably to act on them in some way, but no action was witnessed.
Banks attacked
By accessing the client-side source code of the web page in the network traffi c, it was possible to
identify which banks were the focus of the Geost botnet. The fact that only fi ve banks were listed
suggests that there is a special type of action that can only happen with those banks. It may seem as
if the malware APKs or the C&C code could access and make transfers in accounts of those banks,
but this hypothesis was not proven. For security reasons the complete list of banks will not be
published until the banks acknowledge our contact with them. However, it is possible to provide the
following characteristics of the targeted banks:


The fi rst bank is a Russian commercial neobank. One of the top fi ve providers of credit cards in
Russia.


The second bank is one of the fi ve largest private commercial banks in Russia and one of the top
1,000 world banks.


The third bank is one of the three largest banks in Russia and Eastern Europe, and one of the top
40 banks in the world.


The fourth bank is one of the 500 largest organizations in Europe and one of the leading banks in
Russia.


The fi fth bank is part of a large group of cooperatives with subsidiaries in more than 15
countries, being in the top seven banks in Russia.


The sixth bank is a publicly traded Russian payment service provider operating electronic online
payment systems in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Belarus, Romania, the United States
and the United Arab Emirates.


PAPER PRESENTED AT VB2019 LONDON 11