WINNTI Splinter Cell Targeting Linux
BlackBerry researchers have assessed that there are at least five APT groups acting in
the interest of the Chinese government which together comprise a “splinter cell” that
targets enterprise Linux distributions, all of which are related to one another and to an
APT identified in earlier research as WINNNTI GROUP.
For the first time, BlackBerry researchers have assessed that these groups are all
sharing a previously unidentified Linux malware toolset referred to in this report as the
WINNTILNX toolset. It should be noted that these groups have also been observed
targeting other platforms as well, including Windows, Android, and MacOS.
Four of these five groups are already known to the security community as PASSCV,
BRONZE UNION (aka APT27, EMISSARY PANDA), a group tracked internally as CASPER
(aka LEAD), and the original WINNTI GROUP. But the fifth Linux splinter cell group, which
BlackBerry researchers are tracking as WLNXSPLINTER, is discussed for the first time
in this report. These threat actor groups share three important characteristics:
•
All five groups examined in this report have been observed attacking video game
companies to steal code-signing certificates which they used to sign their malware,
as well as attacking the gaming companies for criminal purposes to produce revenue.
•
All five groups share tools, suggesting several possible scenarios: a formal “digital
quartermaster” arrangement (a la FireEye); an informal “hacker forum” type of toolswap; personnel overlap between the groups; or a re-tasking of the same groups
toward different target sets.
• Their targets run the gamut of nearly all verticals, and activities range from simple
cybercrime to full-blown economic espionage, and from internal monitoring of
politically dissenting populations to more traditional military and strategic nation
state espionage. These groups’ collective palette is wide and well-developed, touching
nearly every industry sector across a huge geographic area.
At least one of these groups, referred to in this report as Kaspersky’s original WINNTI
GROUP, can now be linked more strongly - if not explicitly - to China’s Ministry of State
Security (MSS) based on this research, a discussion taken up in earnest in the Attribution
section near the end of this report.