2 ATTACKS AND INVESTIGATION
In our tracking of InvisiMole activity, we detected a new campaign using updated versions of InvisiMole’s
RC2FM and RC2CL backdoors.
According to our telemetry, the campaign was ongoing from late 2019 to the time of writing this report
and targeted high-profile organizations in Eastern Europe, including military organizations and diplomatic
missions. Like in the previously reported InvisiMole campaign, the attacks were highly targeted, with naught
but a few dozen computers affected.
TLP: WHITE
5 InvisiMole: The hidden part of the story
2.1 InvisiMole’s toolset
Our telemetry suggests that the attackers were actively developing their malware throughout the
campaign, redesigning and recompiling its components, as well as introducing new ones.
For example, we detected several versions of InvisiMole’s loader and RC2FM backdoor, with one of the
samples [1] apparently freshly compiled before being deployed and detected by ESET. We also found that later
in the operation, the attackers abandoned the use of the PE format for their files, in an attempt to avoid
detection. As for the newly introduced components, we discovered a previously unreported TCP downloader
and a DNS downloader, the latter using DNS tunneling to communicate with the C&C server. These are
described in detail in the TCP downloader and DNS downloader sections.
Overall, the campaign is characterized by long execution chains with multiple layers of per-victim
encryption, making it difficult to reconstruct the attack. However, thanks to cooperating directly with the
affected organizations, we were able to recover the payloads and reconstruct four execution chains, which
are described in detail in the Execution chains section.
In these chains, the attackers used several interesting living off the land techniques—they abuse legitimate
applications (also called living off the land binaries or LOLBins ) to execute their own code, set up persistence,
perform lateral movement and other operations, aiming to bypass application whitelisting and fly under the
radar. More information on this tactic can be found in the Delivery method and Execution chains sections.
Furthermore, we found that InvisiMole delivers vulnerable executables to compromised computers and
exploits them for covert code execution and long-term persistence.
Specifically, the attackers brought a vulnerable ~~speedfan.sys~~ driver onto a compromised computer and
exploited it in order to inject InvisiMole into a legitimate process from kernel mode (see the Speedfan exploit
chain section). This technique previously was used, for example, by the Slingshot APT and has been referred to
as Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver (BYOVD) by fellow researchers.
Besides the driver, the attackers delivered a vulnerable Windows component from Windows XP
and exploited its input validation vulnerability (see the Wdigest exploit chain section), or a vulnerable
third‑party software package and exploited its stack overflow vulnerability (see the SMInit exploit chain
section)—a technique we named Bring Your Own Vulnerable Software (BYOVS).
For lateral movement, we observed that the InvisiMole group steals documents or software installers
from the compromised organization, and replaces them in the original locations with their own trojanized
versions (see the Trojanized software and documents section), or uses EternalBlue and BlueKeep exploits to
spread to vulnerable hosts within the network (see the Network vulnerabilities section).
2.2 Cooperation between InvisiMole and Gamaredon
During our investigation, we discovered evidence of collaboration between the InvisiMole group and the
Gamaredon group.
In February 2020, we detected attempts to deploy the InvisiMole malware using server infrastructure that
is known to be used by the Gamaredon group . Specifically, we identified samples of Gamaredon group’s .NET
downloader (detected as MSIL/Pterodo) that download and execute an InvisiMole TCP downloader (see
details in the Delivery method section).
Our research showed that this component was used only against a small number of Gamaredon victims,
which may suggest that targets considered particularly significant by the attackers are “upgraded” from
Gamaredon’s relatively simple .NET downloader to the advanced InvisiMole malware.
1 SHA-1: 27FC1DCB1B3DCA3E496F799A2944E4FB070AF39C
TLP: WHITE
6 InvisiMole: The hidden part of the story
We previously suspected that InvisiMole is only deployed after the attackers have infiltrated the network,
and possibly gained administrative privileges, as many of InvisiMole’s execution methods require elevated
rights. This newly discovered delivery method supports that assumption, and allows the attackers to devise
more creative and stealthier ways to install and execute their malware.
This discovery also reveals a previously unreported cooperation between the Gamaredon and InvisiMole
groups. However, it should be noted these two groups use different TTPs and a varying level of
sophistication—the Gamaredon group seems to make no effort in trying to stay under the radar, in contrast
with the stealthiness of InvisiMole demonstrated in the recent campaign.
Despite the evidence of collaboration, we consider them to be two distinct groups with different TTPs,
rather than a single threat actor.