1) Watering Holes on Social Websites
One of the lure documents was found in the comments area on Israeli Army’s Facebook. It shows
the attackers took advantage of this social websites to deliver the payload because their targets
often visit it. This is the watering hole that has been seen as compromise vector in many
cyber-attacks. Traditionally, watering holes attacks can be categorized into two types by
approach:
a. Attackers will usually study and capture the website that their targets often visit. Then
malware code (usually the scripts exploit some vulnerability) is directly embedded on the
site. Now, the site is infected with Trojan and the trap is ready for victims. When the
targets visit the site and click infected pages, the malware will be implanted in their
computer if the network environment matches attackers preset conditions.
b. Attackers will capture a website and replace certain application or link on it with
malicious download link. Once target visits the site and download the file in the link,
malware will be implanted in the victim’s computer. Typical cases are the Havex Trojan [1]
(also known as Dragonfly or Energetic Bear) unrevealed in 2014 and OceanLotus in late
May, 2015 [2] .
The commonness the two approaches share is attackers need to obtain the authorization to
modify the website they aim to capture. However, in Sphinx attacks, it is much easier to get
authorized to deploy the watering holes because they just need to simply register a Facebook
account. That is all they need to be free to scatter malicious links in the comments’ area. It is a
new approach in setting up watering holes in APT attacks.
1 Havex Hunts For ICS/SCADA Systems, https://www.f secure.com/weblog/archives/00002718.html
2 APT Group OceanLotus, https://ti.360.com/upload/report/file/OceanLotusReport.pdf
Picture 1 Location of the samples on Facebook
The table below shows detailed download link and MD5 of the RAR file from the link:
Malicious Download Link hxxp://israelleaks.is-a-chef.com/leaks/isleaks.rar
Status of the Domain Invalid, already been marked as “sinkhole” by security vendors
MD5 of the Downloaded RAR File 1e4ed1704e31917f8652aa0078a85459
Lure documents in the RAR file are about the amendment on individual income tax regulations.
The original exe icon has been replaced with a PDF or Word icon to induce targets to click.
Picture 2 Lure documents in RAR file folder
With in-depth analysis, we found that 10 social website accounts in total were compromised in
the attacks, including Israeli Army, Israeli Navy and other accounts related with Israeli military
and government. Malicious comments are intense from late January to early February in 2015.
The content containing a malicious link are mostly about the aforementioned adjustments of
individual income tax.

Please review Appendix A for a whole list of the sites.

Picture 3 C2 domain took over by Kaspersky using sinkhole technique