2019
LONDON
2 – 4 October 2019
Our laboratory was running and monitoring HtBot bots that were communicating with the Internet.
Since these bots offered illegal proxy connections it was possible to capture all the traffi c coming
from the illegal users to the Internet. During the analysis of the network traffi c of the illegal users, a
pattern was discovered; this turned out to be the content of the C&C communication channel of the
new Geost botnet.
Figure 1 shows the infrastructure operation of the HtBot malware and how it was used to fi nd the
new Geost botnet. When the botmasters of the Geost botnet connected to the HtBot proxy network
they sent all their traffi c through our victim bot, and therefore through our monitoring service.
Therefore, all the information collected about Geost’s actions comes from looking at the traffi c going
through our computer.
The analysis of the HtBot malware traffi c revealed the pattern shown in Figure 2. This pattern was
discovered thanks to two features that stand out: the large amount of traffi c transferred and the lack
of encryption. Transfers of such large amounts of unencrypted data are not common in a normal
network. The use of unencrypted web servers for the C&C operation was the second OpSec mistake
made by the botmasters. It is not clear why they neglected to use TLS encryption, since it is free and
easy to install. The main hypothesis is that they may have had a large number of C&C servers and
managing the certifi cates for them all would have been time consuming.
Figure 2: Unencrypted traffi c pattern of the Geost botnet that helped to fi nd it. This traffi c was later
found to correspond with the download of SMS messages from the Android phone victims.
The OpSec decision of the Geost botmasters to use the HtBot proxy botnet is believed to be based on
the idea that an illegal proxy network may have better security than other alternatives, such as the Tor
network [12], a commercial VPN network, or their own compromised servers on the Internet. The
Tor network was probably discarded as a bad OpSec choice since it is known to be monitored [13].
The option of a commercial VPN has the disadvantage that the botmasters would be putting their
trust in a private company that may be forced to submit its logs to the authorities. The third option, of
PAPER PRESENTED AT VB2019 LONDON 5