Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
word document (NIC-Cyber Security SOP.doc). The pdf document was a legitimate document which attackers
might have downloaded from (http://meity.gov.in/sites/upload_files/dit/files/Plan_Report_on_Cyber_Security.pdf).
The word document attached in the email contained malicious macro code which when enabled, drops a malware
backdoor, executes it and then sends the system information to the command and control server (C2 Server) and
its also downloads additional components.
From the email (and the attachments shown in the below screenshot) it looks like the goal of the attackers was to
infect and take control of the systems of Cyber Security officers who are responsible for managing and
implementing security controls on the Government network.
The email header consisted of ORCPT (Original-Recipient) header, which had reference to what appears to be a
mailer list associated with Indian Ministry of External Affairs, this indicates that the attackers probably wanted to
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
infect the users connected with Indian Ministry of External Affairs either to spy or to take control of their systems.
Analysis of Word Document Containing Malicious Macro Code
Once the victim opens the attached word document it prompts the user to enable macro as shown below and the
document also contains instruction on how to enable the macros.
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
If the victim enables the macro content, the malicious code drops the malware sample and exectutes it and it also
shows a decoy document containing the instructions and guidelines related to cyber security. This is to make the
user believe that is it indeed a document related to cyber security. Below are some of the screen shots showing
the document that will shown to the user once the macro is enabled.
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
The malicious macro code was reverse engineered to understand its capabilities. The macro code is heavily
obfuscated (uses obscure variable/function names to make analysis harder) as shown below.
The macro code first calls multiple functions to decode the executable content and then it drops the malicious
executable (WINWORD.exe) in the Startup directory and then executes the dropped file as shown in the below
screen shots.
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Once the dropped file is executed by macro code it connects to the command and control server(c2 server) and
to conceal the data sent by the malware, it communicates on port 443 (https) as shown below. The network traffic
pattern will be discussed in detail later.
Analysis of the Dropped Executable (WINWORD.exe)
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
The dropped file was analyzed in an isolated environment (without actually allowing it to connect to the c2 server).
This section contains the behavioral analysis of the dropped executable (WINWORD.exe).
The malware when executed creates additional files on the file system, It downloads these files by contacting the
C2 server and saves it on the disk. Since the malware was not allowed to contact the C2 server its not clear about
the functionality of these files. The below screen shots show WINWORD.exe creating an exectuable, VB script and
VBE files. The malware uses WScript.exe to execute the VB scripts.
As mentioned above, malware once executed makes an https connection to the C2 server as shown below.
C2 Communication Pattern
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Upon execution malware makes an https connection to the url hxxps://webmail[.]duia[.]in/webmail.php. The https
connection was intercepted and different network communications were determined.
In the first communication it collects and sends the system information of the infected system to the attacker in
the user-agent field. The user-agent field contains information about the computer name, username and if the
AntiVirus software is installed or not. The malware sends some information in the post data as well, the post data
gives the information about the action that malware will perform. In the below screen shot notice the system
information sent in the user-agent field and also from the post data it can be deduced that the malware
downloads an exe file.
Malware uses similar network communication pattern to download additional files (vbs, vbe, cmd, sc, ext, a3x etc).
Once downloaded these files are saved in either “%LocalAppData%\Temp\WindowsUpdates” folder or in
“%Temp%\WindowsUpdates” folder. During analysis it was determined that the malware used these filenames
(MS015-0012.exe, MS015-0012.vbs, MS015-0012.vbe etc.) to reside in these directories. Below screen shots shows
some of the network communication made by the malware to download files.
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
C2 Domain Information
This section contains details of the C2 domain (webmail[.]duia[.]in). Attackers used the DynamicDNS hostname
( duia is a Dynamic DNS provider ) to host the C2 server, this allows the attacker to quickly change the IP address in
real time if the malware C2 server infrastructure is unavailable. The C2 domain currently resolves to an IP address
shown below and the same domain was associated with another IP address previously. Both the IP addresses are
associated with hosting providers as shown in the screen shot below
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Indicators Of Compromise
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
The indicators are provided below, so that they can be used by the organizations (Government, Public and
Private organizations) to detect and investigate this attack campaign.
Dropped Malware Sample:
4dc28faeb77550174b936d9ba97d4679 (WINWORD.exe)
Network Indicators Associated with C2:
webmail[.]duia[.]in
hxxps://webmail[.]duia[.]in/webmail.php
95[.]23[.]26[.]28
185[.]100[.]86[.]174
Host Indicators:
Filenames in the “%Temp%\WindowsUpdates” folder: MS015-0012.exe, MS015-0012.vbs, MS015-0012.vbe
Filename WINWORD.exe in the Startup directory
Conclusion
Attackers in this case made every attempt to launch a clever attack campaign by spoofing email address of
Ministry of Defence, they also tried to trick the users to believe the email was sent from NIC’s incident response
team. To make the attack less suspicious they also used a legitimate PDF document in the attachment and used
the name of the top NIC offical in the email signature. The attackers also hosted the C2 server in a Dynamic DNS
provider network. We believe that such attacker groups are likely working to gain long-term access into Indian
Government networks. With India rapidly moving towards digitization and cashless transactions we believe that
more such cyber attacks will continue to target Government, Defence, NGOs and financial institutions.
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL
Convert webpages to pdf online with PDFmyURL