Background
On June 8th, 2017 the Slovak anti-virus firm ESET shared a subset of digital hash­
es of the malware described below and a portion of their analysis with Dragos.
The Dragos team was asked to validate ESET’s findings to news publications ESET
had contacted about the story which would be published June 12th, 2017. Dragos
would like to thank ESET for sharing the digital hashes which allowed the Dragos
team to spawn its investigation. Without control of the timeline, it was Dragos’
desire to publish a report alongside ESET’s report to capture the nuance of elec­
tric grid operations. The report also contains new discoveries, indicators, and im­
plications of the tradecraft. Also, because of the connection to the activity group
Dragos tracks as ELECTRUM, it was our decision that an independent report was
warranted. The Dragos team has been busy over the last 96 hours reproducing and
verifying ESET’s analysis, hunting for new samples of the malware and potential ad­
ditional infections, notifying appropriate companies, and informing our customers.
Importantly, Dragos also updated ICS vendors that needed to be made aware of
this capability, relevant government agencies, many national computer emergen­
cy response teams (CERTs), and key players in the electric energy community. Our
many thanks to those involved.
If you are a Dragos, Inc. customer, you will have already received the more concise
and technically in-depth intelligence report. It will be accompanied by follow-on
reports, and the Dragos team will keep you up-to-date as things evolve. It is in
Dragos’ view that the following report contains significant assessments that de­
serve a wide audience in the electric sector. Avoiding hype and fear should always
be paramount but this case-study is of immediate significance, and this is not a
singular contained event. The CRASHOVERRIDE capability is purpose built to im­
pact electric grid operations and has been created as a framework to facilitate the
impact of electric grids in other countries in the future outside the attack that took
place with it December 17th, 2016 in Ukraine. However, as always, the defense is
doable.
5