Discovery phase
Once the attacker has a foothold on one system, the next step is to create a plan for lateral movement through the
network until the interesting data is found. With more specialized teams of attackers, we can often observe that the
infected system is first analyzed to ensure that it is of interest to them. With watering hole attacks especially, it can
happen that computers that were not targeted get infected. Infected computers need to be assessed by the attacker
and, if necessary, removed to keep the profile, and with that the chances of exposure, low.
One of the obvious tasks performed by attackers is to install key loggers, dump local credentials, search local
storage for saved accounts and sniff the network for passwords. Any account detail can be useful to them. Domain
administrator passwords are of especially high value, as they can help greatly in moving further through the Intranet.
Often small scripts or even manual commands are used to comb through local files and create network mappings.
Simple system commands can help the attacker to learn about installed security tools, saved links to internal
Page 26
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector
platforms and local address books.
Once new systems are identified the
attacker will attempt to hop onto
them as well. In some instances
they might even use zero-day
vulnerabilities to spread further into
the network.
One method which is gaining more
relevance is the hijacking of local
software distribution systems for
further distribution. This can either
be proprietary systems, such as the
case of Trojan.Jokra in South Korea,
or OS-specific, such as hijacking
Windows Update, in the case of
Flamer. Once the attackers have
successfully managed to create
and distribute their own package, Figure 9: Typical commands used during discovery phase
they can easily infect all connected
systems at once. Especially in cases
of wiping attacks, such Trojan.Jokra, this is a very efficient way to disrupt as many computers as possible.
If the target is assumed to be in a separated network not connected to the Internet, the malware used might try and
autonomously infect removable drives, like USB sticks, or project files for PLCs. This could allow the malware to be
manually introduced to the destination network, without the knowledge of the carrier, essentially jumping air gaps
into isolated networks.
At the end of the discovery phase the attackers should know the internals of the infected networks and have
identified systems with interesting data or with connected industrial control systems.