E us in the business of stopping breaches and protecting organizations
from cyberattacks, it was also perhaps the most active year in memory.
The onslaught was unrelenting, and for some organizations, overwhelming. As stayat-home orders rippled around the world, we saw office blocks turn into ghost towns
virtually overnight. Millions of workers retreated to hastily equipped home offices,
creating a feeding frenzy for cyber predators spurred on by the windfall of easy
access to sensitive data and networks. At the same time, fear, concern and curiosity
surrounding COVID-19 provided the perfect cover for a record-setting increase in
social engineering attacks from both eCrime actors and targeted intrusion adversaries.
As the saying goes, “the devil is in the details,” and in many ways, that sums up this
year’s Global Threat Report. The details revealed in these pages are derived from
firsthand observations of our frontline cyber responders and analysts, coupled with
insights drawn directly from the unprecedented volume of crowdsourced threat
telemetry we continuously collect and dissect on behalf of our customers.
Among the details you’ll learn in this report:
How state-sponsored adversaries infiltrated networks to steal valuable data on
vaccine research and government responses to the pandemic
How criminal adversaries introduced new business models to expand their “big
game hunting” ransomware activities — and made them even more potent with
the addition of blackmail and extortion techniques
How both eCrime and targeted intrusion adversaries stepped up their
development efforts, deploying a variety of inventive new methods to evade
detection and confound defenders
Our annual report also offers some important lessons and recommendations for
security teams operating in today’s environment. As threat actors add new tools,
techniques and procedures to their arsenals, and form new alliances to bolster their
strength and extend their reach, visibility and speed are more critical than ever.
Security teams must become more versatile, more proactive and more productive to
stay ahead of threats.
CrowdStrike is committed to helping you achieve and maintain an advantage over
adversaries. We’re working hard to help you secure your cloud environments, just
as you would on-premises systems. We’re providing better ways for you to identify
and proactively address potential vulnerabilities before they can be leveraged by
attackers. We’re helping you protect identities and access, including new Zero Trust
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 3
capabilities to compartmentalize your operations, restrict data access and reduce
risk to your most sensitive information. These are just a few of the ways we are
pushing the envelope, expanding our protection capabilities so we can enhance and
empower yours.
We spent much of 2020 hoping that its unique challenges would quickly be
consigned to history. Let’s hold onto that hope, but at the same time, we need to stay
clear-eyed and resolute about the hurdles that lie ahead. I hope this report on recent
global threat activity and trends helps you become better informed and better able
to meet those challenges, so when we finally put this chapter of history behind us,
we’ll be able to look back and reflect on not just our losses, but also a few victories.
George Kurtz
CrowdStrike CEO and Co-Founder
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 4
Table of Contents
6
6
8
9
11
11
16
19
24
25
28
30
34
35
39
41
44
47
48
48
48
50
52
52
Introduction
Introducing the eCrime Index
Naming Conventions
Threat Hunting Overview
2020 Trends
Global Pandemic Brings COVID-19 Themes and Healthcare
Sector Targeting
StellarParticle Conducts Supply Chain Attack
and Abuses O365
Big Game Hunters Adopt Data Extortion Methods
eCrime Ecosystem
Trends and Techniques
OverWatch Feature: WIZARD SPIDER Targets Financial
Institution
eCrime Enablers
Targeted Intrusions
China
Russia
Iran
N. Korea
Other Adversaries
Vulnerability Intelligence
Exposure and Reliability
Interdependencies: Exploits and Credential-Based Attacks
Recommendations
About CrowdStrike
Products and Services
Explore The Universe