C&C ACTIVITY TIMES
The time at which servers were staged was listed not only by hour, but by day of the week. After
plotting these times by hour, with the day of the week specified through color coordination, we
can see various patterns. It was more common for servers to be staged on certain days of the
week, such as Sunday, rather than on other days, such as Saturday. These times are also
clustered together in a clump for the most part, with almost no activity earlier than 2:00 UTC,
and besides one exception on Sunday, not later than 11:00 UTC. This clump is very similar to the
range of time specified within the first clump of time in the PPS editing graph and the “First
stretch of work” area of the “Threat actor working hours” diagram.
Displays the number of times a server was staged by hour of day, color-coordinated by day of
the week
Other data extracted from the server included the time of day and day of the week of domain
registrations. After plotting these on a graph, we observed that domains were registered only on
specific days of the week. The other important feature is that all of these incidents occurred
between 3:00 and 15:00 UTC, which is a slightly wider range than the first stretch of time in the
PPS editing graph, but still very comparable.
Research 21
TLP: GREEN
Displays the number of domain registrations by hour of day, color-coordinated by day of the
week
Extra analysis we were able to conduct was on the compilation times, by time of day and day of
the week. After plotting these on a graph, we observed that, similar to domain registrations,
compilations only occurred on specific days of the week. All the events took place between 2:00
and 10:00 UTC, which is only a slight shift of the time span in the first stretch of PPS editing.
Research 22
TLP: GREEN
Displays the number of compilations by hour of day, color-coordinated by day of the week
All three of these graphs provide confirmation that these attacks were clustered partially by day
of the week but mostly by time of day. Specifically, the time of day when staging servers, domain
registration, and compilations occurred most frequently lined up with the first stretch of time
seen in the PPS [18] editing data. This applies to the area of the map within the “First stretch of
time” label and adds weight to our conclusion that the threat actors live in the blue area.
This time of day activity data, when combined with the previous circumstantial evidence (the
threat actor’s intelligence requirements, the countries targeted around India, the other targets
around the world, and the content of the spear phishing, directs us to the conclusion that this
threat actor correlates with a location in India.
Carefully, we feel obligated to note that further evidence suggests potential links between this
threat actor and the operations known as Hangover/Appin, but this possible link is still being
researched and is far from conclusive.
That said, attribution is tricky business and it’s never possible to be entirely conclusive.

18 Information from several partners suggests that the documents being stolen and then
repurposed for spear phishing purposes also contain language indicators that support our
hypothesis, but we have no direct information to support this.
Research 23
TLP: GREEN