Middle East
We recently came across previously unknown malicious artifacts that we attributed to the Lyceum/Hexane threat group, showing that
the attackers behind it are still active and have been developing their toolset during the last year. Although Lyceum still prefers taking
advantage of DNS tunneling, it appears to have replaced the previously documented .NET payload with a new C++ backdoor and a
PowerShell script that serve the same purpose. Our telemetry revealed that the threat group’s latest endeavors are focused on going after
entities within one country – Tunisia. The victims we observed were all high-profile Tunisian organizations, such as telecommunications
or aviation companies. Based on the targeted industries, we assume that the attackers may have been interested in compromising these
entities to track the movements and communications of individuals that are of interest to them. This could mean that the latest Lyceum
cluster has an operational focus on targeting Tunisia, or that it is a subset of broader activity that is yet to be discovered.
On November 19, 2020, Shadow Chaser Group tweeted about a suspected MuddyWater APT malicious document potentially targeting a
university in the United Arab Emirates. Based on our analysis since then, we suspect this intrusion is part of a campaign that started at
least in early October 2020 and was last seen active in late December 2020. The threat actor relied on VBS-based malware to infect
organizations from government, NGO and education sectors. Our telemetry, however, indicates that no further tools were deployed and
we do not believe that data theft took place either. This indicates to us that the attackers are currently in the reconnaissance phase of
their operation, and we expect subsequent waves of attacks to follow in the near future. In our private report, we provide an in-depth
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2021/101967/ 5/11
4/28/2021 APT trends report Q1 2021 | Securelist
analysis of the malicious documents used by this threat actor and study their similarities to known MuddyWater tooling. The
infrastructure setup and communications scheme are also similar to past incidents attributed to this group. The actor maintains a small
set of first-stage C2 servers to connect back from the VBS implant for initial communications. Initial reconnaissance is performed by the
actor and communication with the implant is handed off to a second-stage C2 for additional downloads. Finally, we present similarities
with known TTPs of the MuddyWater group and attribute this campaign to them with medium confidence.
Domestic Kitten is a threat group mainly known for its mobile backdoors. The group’s operations were exposed in 2018, showing that it
was conducting surveillance attacks against individuals in the Middle East. The threat group targeted Android users by sending them
popular and well-known applications that were backdoored and contained malicious code. Many of the applications had religious or
political themes and were intended for Farsi, Arabic and Kurdish speakers, possibly alluding to this attack’s main targets. We have
discovered new evidence showing that Domestic Kitten has been using PE executables to target victims using Windows since at least
2013, with some evidence that it goes back to 2011. The Windows version, which, to the best of our knowledge, has not been described in
the past, was delivered in several versions, with the more recent one used for at least three and a half years to target individuals in
parallel to the group’s mobile campaigns. The implant functionality and infrastructure in that version have remained the same all along,
and have been used in the group’s activity witnessed this year.
Ferocious Kitten is an APT group that has been active against Persian-speaking individuals since 2015 and appears to be based in Iran.
Although it has been active over a large timespan, the group has mostly operated under the radar and, to the best of our knowledge, has
not been covered by security researchers. It only recently attracted attention when a lure document was uploaded to VirusTotal and was
brought to public knowledge by researchers on Twitter. Subsequently, one of its implants was analyzed by a Chinese intelligence firm.
We have been able to expand some of the findings on the group and provide insights on additional variants. The malware dropped from
the aforementioned document is dubbed MarkiRAT and is used to record keystrokes and clipboard content, provide file download and
upload capabilities as well as the ability to execute arbitrary commands on the victim’s machine. We were able to trace the implant back
to at least 2015, along with variants intended to hijack the execution of the Telegram and Chrome applications as a persistence method.
Interestingly, some of the TTPs used by this threat actor are reminiscent of other groups operating in the domain of dissident
surveillance. For example, it used the same C2 domains across its implants for years, which was witnessed in the activity of Domestic
Kitten. In the same vein, the Telegram execution hijacking technique observed in this campaign by Ferocious Kitten was also observed
being used by Rampant Kitten, as covered by Check Point. In our private report, we expand the details on these findings as well as
provide analysis and mechanics of the MarkiRAT malware.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2021/101967/ 6/11
4/28/2021 APT trends report Q1 2021 | Securelist
Karkadann is a threat actor that has been targeting government bodies and news outlets in the Middle East since at least October 2020.
The threat actor leverages tailor-made malicious documents with embedded macros that trigger an infection chain, opening a URL in
Internet Explorer. The minimal functionality present in the macros and the browser specification suggest that the threat actor might be
exploiting a privilege-escalation vulnerability in Internet Explorer. Despite the small amount of evidence available for analysis in the
Karkadann case, we were able to find several similarities to the Piwiks case, a watering-hole attack we discovered that targeted multiple
prominent websites in the Middle East. Our private report presents the recent Karkadann campaigns and the similarities between this
campaign and the Piwiks case. The report concludes with some infrastructure overlaps with unattributed clusters that we have seen
since last year that are potentially linked to the same threat actor.