Chinese-speaking activity
Recent APT trend summaries included analyses of new Chinese-speaking threat actors
as well as the resurgence of old activity sets. This has continued into 2019.
In the early months of 2019, Chinese-speaking actors were the most active, with a
traditional interest in targeting different countries in South East Asia. A recent indictment
of two Chinese nationals by the US Department of Justice on charges of computer
hacking, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and aggravated identity theft, alleged that they
were members of the APT10 group, carrying out illegal activity on behalf of the Chinese
Ministry of State Security.
Similarly, CactusPete (aka LoneRanger, Karma Panda, and Tonto Team), is reported to
have targeted South Korean, Japanese, US, and Taiwanese organizations in the 2012 –
2014 timeframe. The actor has quite likely relied on much the same codebase and
implant variants for the past six years. However these have broadened substantially
since 2018. The group spear-phishes its targets, deploys Word and Equation Editor
exploits and an appropriated/repackaged DarkHotel VBScript zero-day, delivers modified
and compiled unique Mimikatz variants, GSEC and WCE credential stealers, a
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2019/90643/ 2/6
5/13/2019 APT trends report Q1 2019 | Securelist
keylogger, various Escalation of Privilege exploits, various older utilities and an updated
set of backdoors, and what appear to be new variants of custom downloader and
backdoor modules.
We have been monitoring a campaign targeting Vietnamese government and diplomatic
entities abroad since at least April 2018. We attribute the campaign, which we call
“SpoiledLegacy”, to the LuckyMouse APT group (aka EmissaryPanda and APT27). The
operators use penetration testing frameworks such as Cobalt Strike and Metasploit.
While we believe that they exploit network services vulnerabilities as their main initial
infection vector, we have also seen spear-phishing messages containing decoy
documents. We believe that, as in a previous LuckyMouse campaign internal database
servers are among the targets. For the last stage of their attack they use different in
memory 32- and 64-bit Trojans injected into system process memory. It is worth
highlighting that all the tools in the infection chain dynamically obfuscate Win32 API calls
using leaked HackingTeam code.
FireEye defined APT40 as the Chinese state-sponsored threat actor previously reported
as TEMP.Periscope, Leviathan and TEMP.Jumper. According to FireEye, the group has
conducted operations in support of China’s naval modernisation effort since at least
2013, specifically targeting engineering, transportation and defence industries, especially
where these sectors overlap with maritime technologies. Recently, FireEye also
observed specific targeting of countries strategically important to the “Belt and Road”
Initiative, including Cambodia, Belgium, Germany, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Malaysia,
Norway, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, the United States and the United Kingdom.
Interestingly, the use of newer ANEL versions by APT10, targeting Japan, allowed us to
find similarities between this malware and Emdivi, malware previously used by
BlueTermite. This suggests a potential connection between both actors.