Energetic Bear/ Dragonfly/ Havex Crouching Yeti/ Koala Team
Since 2011, Energetic Bear, an Eastern European threat actor, has targeted the
Defense Industry, Energy Industry, and ICS equipment manufacturers, with highly technical
prolonged attacks that are suggestive of a state sponsor. Energetic Bear’s exploit kit features
specialized malware, likely developed or adapted by the attackers, that was compiled during
business hours (Monday – Friday, 9am – 6pm) UTC+4, which corresponds to working hours in
Russia or Eastern Europe. Most security firms conclude that Energetic Bear is a Russian state
sponsored group because the group targets nation states who are politically opposed to
Russia. Further, the malware primarily compromises petroleum and energy systems that
compete with Russia’s energy complex in the economical arena.
Based on its choice of targets and the malware deployed, Energetic Bear seems
primarily interested in gathering intelligence on its victims or their country of origin and
establishing persistent access to compromised systems. The sophisticated exploit kit could
easily be used to sabotage targets’ operations to cause damage or disruption in critical
infrastructure sectors that depend on ICS and SCADA systems. So far, while the malware
has been positioned ideally to sabotage ICS and SCADA systems, investigations by
Symantec and other leading firms witness more uses of the exploit kit for espionage
purposes than the sabotage purposes. The threat actors may prefer not to utilize this
capability or sabotage campaigns may occur, appearing as system failures that are not
investigated as cyber-attacks. More likely, Energetic Bear may be pre-positioning its
malware in compromised systems to grant the greatest utility while allowing for every
attack vector. Given its selection of targets and its exploit kit, both of which are detailed
below, Energetic Bear is uniquely positioned to assist in a combination of Digital and
Physical warfare for military or political purposes. Notably, Russia conducted such a
campaign in its 2008 conflict with Georgia.
29
When Energetic Bear was discovered in 2011, the group targeted aviation and
defense companies in the United States and Canada; however, in 2013, energy firms in the
United States and Europe became the primary targets of Energetic Bear. In particular, the
exploit kit targets the systems of ICS equipment manufacturers and petroleum pipeline
operators. Energy grid operators, electricity generation facilities, and industrial equipment
providers are also susceptible to compromise. By ingeniously targeting the smaller, less
protected ICS manufacturing companies and antiquated SCADA systems, Energetic Bear is
able to circumnavigate the massive state-sponsored cyber-security systems that typically
protect critical infrastructure systems.
The exploit kit mimics the Stuxnet worm (which monitored and sabotaged the Iranian
Nuclear program in 2011) in potential impact. If the sabotage potential of the malware
were realized, then Energetic Bear could disrupt and seriously damage energy supply and
regulation systems in countries such as: the United States, Spain, France, Germany, Turkey,
and Poland. Consider the tragedy that a malicious actor could wrought with the ability to
remotely destroy oilrigs, energy generation facilities, or electrical grids. The smallest city
wide power outage has the potential to result in many deaths related to loss in electricity
needed for in-home medical care, heating, and other technologies that assist in citizens’
daily lives. Even if an attack is controlled well enough or mitigated soon enough to prevent
serious physical damage to the facility, imagine the economic ramifications that the actor
could inflict upon a nation state through repeated targeted attacks on its energy systems.
The gas price hikes of the mid 2000’s might seem a minor inconvenience in comparison to
the damage caused by a persistent sabotage campaign.
From February to June 2013, Energetic Bear launched a spam campaign against the
United States and European energy sectors. Executives and senior employees in seven
organizations received emails, sent from a Gmail account, containing a malicious pdf. If the
pdf was opened, then the malware spread to the network. The emails were made to look as
if they came from a known source (such as the victims’ boss) and organizations were
targeted with anywhere between 1 and 84 emails. In a more ambitious spear phishing
campaign, emails containing remote access Trojans (RATs) were sent to personnel in three
ICS equipment manufacturers who dominated their markets. The malware injected
malicious code into the ICS software update bundles that were later posted for download
from the manufacturer’s website. The targeted equipment which would receive the update
are used in a number of sectors, including energy. The Trojan managed to compromise the
bundles of two companies and infect the programmable logic controllers of devices
produced by those manufacturers, before the infection was discovered.
30
Later, watering hole attacks were added to the campaign. In these attacks, websites
often visited by personnel of the target organization were compromised (usually with an
injected iframe) and set to redirect victims to a site that delivered an exploit kit that installed
the malware on the victim’s PC. The development of additional attack vector(s) and the
resources to compromise third party sites as “stepping stones” to desired targets suggests
that the group is state sponsored. In either attack, the malware was configured to search
victims’ systems for ICS software and updates and to trojanize the software so that the
adversaries could compromise guarded ICS systems the next time the software was
downloaded or they were updated by trusted personnel.
The group employs two exploit kits (LightOut and Hello) and two malware
(Trojan.Karagany and Backdoor.Oldrea). The exploit kits are used to initially compromise the
system and install the malware. The malware is used for espionage, persistent access, or
sabotage. LightsOut exploits vulnerabilities in Java or in Microsoft Internet Explorer to deploy
the Karagany or Oldrea malware onto a user’s system. In September 2013, the Hello exploit
kit replaced the LightsOut kit. The Hello kit is combined with watering hole attacks to redirect
victims to a landing page, where a JavaScript fingerprints their system to determine details
such as operating system, browser, and installed plugins. The victim is then redirected to the
site that contains the exploit most likely to achieve the adversaries’ goals.
Trojan.Karagany and Backdoor.Oldrea are remote access Trojans (RATs) that are used
to install additional tools or malware, to search the system for valuable data, and to exfiltrate
data from the system. In an attack, the group uses either Karagany or Oldrea, but never both,
because the malware serve the same purpose. The Karagany malware is only used in 5% of
attacks. Karagany is a widely available exploit for purchase or source code recompilation on
the internet underground because its code was leaked in 2010. Karagany features tools for
indexing documents, taking screenshots of the system, and collecting passwords. At the
adversary’s instruction, it can also download new tools or files, run plugins or executables, or
exfiltrate data to a designated C&C server. Oldrea, also widely known as the Havex malware,
appears to be used in most attacks and it appears to have been written by or written for the
attackers. Once installed, Oldrea profiles the system by collecting system information,
harvesting outlook address book information, noting VPN configuration files, and indexing
files, programs, and the root of available drives. The data is compiled into a temporary file,
encrypted, and sent to an adversary C&C server. Oldrea features a control panel that the
adversaries can use to authenticate to a C&C server and download a compressed copy of
each specific victim’s data. The servers hijacked by Energetic Bear to serve as C&C servers
may have been compromised using the same exploit of content management systems.
31