• Possible Indicators of Compromise
Attackers want to remain undetected as long as possible. A key characteristic of these attacks is stealth.
The GET and POST requests from compromised computers contained a URL path in the following format, aaaaa.php?id=bbbbbbcccccccccccc, where
“aaaaa” refers to five random characters that form a file name, “bbbbbb,” refers to six pseudorandomly generated characters that change for each
connection, and “cccccccccccc” refers to 12 characters that represent the compromised host’s MAC address that is obfuscated using a custom
algorithm.
In addition, the initial command-and-control (C&C) server request typically uses the following format:
[C&C]/{5 random characters}.php?id={6 random numbers}{encrypted victim’s MAC address}

The full technical details of this attack can be read in the Trend Micro research paper, “The Taidoor Campaign: An In-Depth Analysis.” The

characteristics highlighted in this APT campaign profile reflect the results of our investigation as of August 2012.
TR END MICRO™
Trend Micro Incorporated (TYO: 4704; TSE: 4704), a global cloud security leader,
creates a world safe for exchanging digital information with its Internet content
security and threat management solutions for businesses and consumers. A pioneer
in server security with over 20 years’ experience, we deliver top-ranked client,
server and cloud-based security that fits our customers’ and partners’ needs, stops
new threats faster, and protects data in physical, virtualized and cloud
environments. Powered by the industry-leading Trend Micro™ Smart Protection
Network™ cloud computing security infrastructure, our products and services stop
threats where they emerge—from the Internet. They are supported by 1,000+ threat
intelligence experts around the globe.
TR END MICRO INC.
10101 N. De Anza Blvd.
Cupertino, CA 95014
U.S. toll free: 1 +800.228.5651
Phone: 1 +408.257.1500
Fax: 1 +408.257.2003
www.trendmicro.com
© 2012 by Trend Micro, Incorporated. All rights reserved. Trend Micro and the Trend Micro t-ball logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Trend Micro, Incorporated. All
other product or company names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their owners.