NIST CSF Detect
The last few years have seen the
development and enhancement of
both network and host detection and
prevention systems. These have been
re-envisioned as Endpoint Detection
and Response (EDR) and Network
Detection and Response (NDR)
solutions. Event and telemetry data
from these systems typically roll up
into Security Information and Event
Management (SIEM) and Security
Orchestration, Automation, and
Response (SOAR) solutions to trigger
response and containment, eradication,
remediation and recovery actions.
These technologies have moved
beyond outdated signature-based
detection toward behavior-pattern
detection enhanced with cyber threat
intelligence, automation, and machine
learning or artificial intelligence (i.e.,
statistical analysis and anomaly
detection). Solutions also facilitate
proactive analysis, often referred to as
“security health checks.”
It’s also important to remember that
having the best technology in your
arsenal doesn’t help unless you have
equally mature processes as well as
suitably skilled and trained personnel to
manage it effectively.
Develop and implement appropriate
activities to identify the occurrence of a
cybersecurity event.
The 2016 DBIR reported that, in general,
victim organizations seldom detect data
breaches. Rather, external sources are
more likely to make the discovery. This
trend remains the same even years later
in the 2020 DBIR and is especially true
for Cyber-Espionage breaches in the
2014-2020 DBIR timeframe. These
breaches tend to allow the adversary to
siphon as much information as possible
from their victim for as long as possible
while remaining undetected.
The questions for organizations in
2016 were how could an organization
improve its Time to Discovery trend?
How can it avoid relying mostly on
external sources that lie beyond its
control? How can it detect intrusions
as they occur if not before they occur?
These questions led to innovation in the
detection-technology space, which we
cover later in the report.
However, despite some organizations
adopting these new technologies, the
problem remains. A possible explanation
is that these new techniques often
rely on the organization having first
covered the basics, such as determining
network activity baselines, defining
cybersecurity incidents and specifying
alert thresholds, which isn’t always
the case.
Detection tips
Before investing in new technology,
an organization should verify that its
cybersecurity foundations are solid.
Security strategists can accomplish
this by adopting the Capability Maturity
Model (CMM) strategy, originally
developed to improve software
development processes. The CMM
relies on measuring, controlling and
regularly updating documentation and
processes to limit the unknowns.
During VTRAC data breach
investigations, crucial data is often
unavailable. Gaps come in the form
of missing log files, undocumented
systems, poor data accessibility,
network traffic flows, operational
practices, and underestimated or underdocumented data-sensitivity issues.
This lack of information not only
hinders a data breach investigation and
subsequent incident response efforts,
but it also creates golden opportunities
for the adversary to easily find and
access potentially sensitive information.
One way to address the gap between
compromise and detection speed in
breaches involving adversaries using
evasion tactics is to enhance detection
capabilities while keeping up with new
evasion techniques. Organizations
should develop defensive capabilities,
such as counterespionage deception
techniques, specifically to reflect these
emerging evasion TTPs.

Verify that the organization’s cybersecurity foundations

are solid by adopting the CMM strategy

Ensure the availability of crucial data by reducing

the incidence of missing log files, undocumented
systems, poor data accessibility, network traffic flows,
operational practices, and underestimated or underdocumented data-sensitivity issues

Develop counterespionage detection techniques that

evolve to reflect emerging evasion TTPs

Move toward behavior-pattern detection enhanced with

cyber threat intelligence, automation, and solutions
based on machine learning or artificial intelligence

Leverage experienced security professionals to

manage advanced technology
20 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report
Discovery methods
In terms of top Discovery methods for Cyber-Espionage
breaches in the 2014-2020 DBIR timeframe, we see the
top two methods as Suspicious traffic (48%) and Antivirus
(23%), with Emergency response team a distant third (7%).
This contrasts sharply with the top Discovery methods for
all breaches for the same timeframe, in which we see Law
enforcement (28%), Fraud detection (19%) and Customer
(15%), respectively, at the top.
When we put on the threat actor “motive filter,” this makes
sense. Data breaches overall are dominated by the Financial
motive, whereas Cyber-Espionage breaches align with the
Espionage motive, which is much more targeted in its approach.
A factor at play here is that the Financial motive threat
actor has to contend with the Payment Card Industry (PCI)
Common Point of Purchase (CPP) fraud detection system.
There is no corresponding detection service looking for theft
of trade secrets, which contributes to longer discovery times.
Top controls

CSC-6: Maintenance, Monitoring and Analysis of

Audit Logs


CSC-8: Malware Defenses


CSC-12: Boundary Defense


CSC-19: Incident Response and Management


Suspicious traffic
Antivirus
Emergency response team
Reported by employee
Law enforcement
NIDS
Log review
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
48%
Figure #31: Top Discovery methods for Cyber-Espionage breaches
(2014-2020 DBIR; n=408)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
Law enforcement
Fraud detection
Customer
Reported by employee
Monitoring service
Actor disclosure
Suspicious traffic
Figure #32: Top Discovery methods for all breaches
(2014-2020 DBIR; n=7,025)
21 2020-2021 Cyber-Espionage Report