back
07.05.2015,
Author: Paul Rascagnères
2015-05-08, 8:46 AM
G Data International G Data Germany RSS Feed
Search
Recent entries:
Dissecting the “Kraken”
Analysis of the Kraken malware that was used for a targeted attack in
UAE
In January 2015, unidentified attackers attempted to infiltrate a multi-national
enterprise based in the United Arab Emirates, using a spear phishing attack with a
crafted MS Word document attached to the message. Once it has reached its target,
the payload used was designed to work as an information stealer and
reconnaissance tool. G DATA’s security experts identified the malware behind this
attack and reveal information about the actual power of the malware’s tentacles.
In this article, the G DATA SecurityLabs will have a look at the following topics:
an example of the spear phishing campaign, sent only a few days after the malware has
been advertised
the marketing approach to sell the malware
the analysis of some of Kraken’s features
theories about why Kraken has been used as malware in a targeted attack
Infection Vector
The attacker(s) sent a specially crafted email to at least one employee of the attacked
enterprise. The email’s body reveals a business-related topic: an offer to become member of
this year’s International Trade Council. Nevertheless, the offer is directed at the Philippine
National Bank, not the enterprise actually receiving the email. This could be a trick to make
the recipient even more curious to look at the attached document, because he/she received
documents not issued for him/her.
The G DATA experts alerted the aeCERT about the incident and their analysis results.
10.04.2015: Staying alert when buying
banners: Google's advertising service misused
for distributing malware
31.03.2015: IoT: The Internet of Things...
ehm... Trouble?!
16.03.2015: The Andromeda/Gamarue
botnet is on the rise again
06.03.2015: Casper: the newest member of
the cartoon malware family
22.02.2015: The power of trust: “Superfish”
case turns into a worst case scenario
Category
Adware
Bots & Botnets
CyberCrime
eCrime economy
Legal issues
Exploits
Funny findings
Web threats
Scareware
Phishing
Security products
Vulnerabilities
Social engineering
Mails
Mobile
Mobile
Social Network
Tags
1337 crew adware aldi amtso
analysis android android market
apple apt authentication autorun av
products award badusb banking
blog bot botnet bredolab browser
brwoser bug carbon caro casino
cebit cellphone chat cloud cms
cobra coding conference credit card
cve cyber espionage cyber espionage;
malware cyper espionage. targattacks dll
dns domain eicar email exploit
exploits eyjafjallajoekull facebook
fake fake alert fake av false
positive fifa firefox fix flame flash
fraud ftp gaming google google
play hack heartbleed ie iframe im
infection injection iot java khobe
likejacking link links lizamoon lnk
lottery mac mail mails
https://blog.gdatasoftware.com/blog/article/dissecting-the-kraken.html Page 1 of 7
2015-05-08, 8:46 AM