Lucky Partners & Welcome Partners
Website:
https://luckypartners.biz/
Foundation
Lucky Partners founded
by Rustam Gilfanov
In 2011,
Lucky Partnerns moved
from Moscow to Kiev due
to Ukraine’s less strict
gambling laws
In 2013,
Lucky Partners started
collaborating with a Ukrainian
entrepreneur
In 2020,
The conflict between Lucky
Partners and Welcome
Partners has lasted for over
six years
General information
For a long time, the two partner programs Lucky Partners and Welcome Partners were the main participants involved in the underground online casino market.
According to media reports, Lucky Partners was founded by Rustam Gilfanov. His partner was Sergey Tokarev. [12] In 2011, Lucky
Partnerns moved from Moscow to Kiev due to Ukraine’s less strict
gambling laws. [13]
Welcome Partners was founded by a Ukrainian entrepreneur,
the owner of many Ukrainian online casinos and popular dating
websites.
Lucky Partners started collaborating with the Welcome Partners
leadership in 2013. However, they later had a conflict, which has
been ongoing for over six years.
Business practices
Both partner programs use two types of illegal online casinos:
licensed and non-licensed.
In several countries, including in Europe, laws generally allow for
online casinos to operate. As such, some developers provide
software for online casinos that comply with gambling regulations. In such casinos, winning is possible and winnings are based
on a mathematical algorithm that ensures that the casino always
has some profit. These casinos are considered licensed.
In the case of non-licensed casinos, similar software is installed,
but it is cracked and allows setting arbitrary betting odds, including
in a way that makes winning impossible.
It is worth mentioning that Lucky Partners try to distance themselves from the most well-known casinos, particularly Azino777, but
media outlets have confirmed that this casino is in fact one of their
projects.
Along with online casinos, partner programs are involved in other
gambling-type projects: small Forex brokers and binary options
(a business that deals with bets on currencies and cryptocurrencies, which in general is banned by international payment systems,
Russian law, and the laws of European countries), various lotteries,
and other similar products.
Lucky Partners and Welcome Partners stay away from Fonbet and
1xBet, the leaders of the bookmaker industry. Nevertheless, both
support the gambling industry.
12 https://www.rbc.ru/magazine/2018/07/5b3f96df9a79475e9f9f5045
13 https://rb.ru/longread/unlucky-labs/
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
The economics of illegal resources 55
Accepting payments
International payment systems require that almost all
aforementioned types of businesses be registered with a special
transaction code, MCC 7995. This is the code that was blocked
in the US to stop online casino transactions. Violating the MCC
7995 requirement incurs significant fines starting at $25,000 for
each incident.

