Miniduke still duking it out
At the end of April Microsoft announced that a vulnerability in Word was actively being exploited. This
vulnerability occurred in parsing RTF files and was assigned CVE-2014-1761, a thorough analysis of which
can be found on the HP Security Research blog. We have since seen multiple cases where this exploit is
used to deliver malware and one was particularly interesting as it contained a new variant of MiniDuke
(also known as Win32/SandyEva).
MiniDuke was first discussed by Kaspersky in March 2013 in their paper The MiniDuke Mystery: PDF 0-
day Government Spy Assembler 0x29A Micro Backdoor and shortly after in a paper by Bitdefender. Some
of the characteristics of MiniDuke — such as its small size (20 KB), its crafty use of assembly
programming, and the use of zero-day exploits for distribution — made it an intriguing threat. Although
the backdoor is still quite similar to its previous versions, some important changes were made since last
year, the most notable being the introduction of a secondary component written in JScript to contact a
C&C server via Twitter.
The RTF exploit document
The exploit document was named Proposal-Cover-Sheet-English.rtf and is quite bland when compared to
the documents that were used in 2013, which were of a political nature. We received the document on
April 8th, only three days after the compilation of the MiniDuke payload, dated April 5th in the PE header.
The payload remains quite small at only 24 KB.
The functionality of the shellcode which is executed by triggering the vulnerability is rather simple and
straightforward. After decrypting itself and obtaining the addresses of some functions exported by
kernel32.dll, it decrypts and drops the payload in the %TEMP% directory in a file named “a.l” which is
subsequently loaded by calling kernel32!LoadLibraryA.
An interesting thing about the shellcode is that before transferring control to any API function it checks
the first bytes of the function in order to detect hooks and debugger breakpoints which may be set by
security software and monitoring tools. If any of these are found the shellcode skips the first 5 bytes of the
function being called by manually executing prologue instructions (mov edi, edi; push ebp; mov ebp, esp)
and then jumping to the function code as illustrated below.
The next graph presents the execution flow of this malware when the exploitation is successful. As
mentioned previously this version of the MiniDuke payload comes with two modules which we refer to as
the main module and the TwitterJS module.
Execution flow of MiniDuke