Recommendations
Architecture
Recommendations:


Properly segment networks from each other.


Ensure logging is enabled on devices that support it, including both IT and Operational Technology (OT)


assets.


Ensure that network architecture, such as switches, are managed and have the ability to capture data
from the environment to support Passive and Active Defense mechanisms.


Make backups of critical software installers and include an MD5 and SHA256 digital hash of the


installers.


Collect and vault backup project files from the network.


Test the tools and technologies that passive and active defense mechanisms will need (such as digital
imaging software) on the environment to ensure that it will not negatively impact systems.


Prioritize and patch known vulnerabilities based on the most critical assets in the organization.


Limit remote connections only to personnel that need them. When personnel need remote access,
ensure that if they do not need control that they do not have access to control elements. Use two-form


authentication on the remote connections.

Consider use of a system event monitoring system, configured and monitored specifically for high-value
ICS/SCADA systems.

Passive Defense
Recommendations:

Application whitelisting can help limit adversary initial infection vectors and should be used when not

too invasive to the ICSs.


DMZs and properly tuned firewalls between network segments will give visibility into the environment
and allow defenders the time required to identify intrusions.


Establish a central logging and data aggregation point to allow forensic evidence to be collected and


made available to defenders.


Implement alarm package priorities for abnormal cyber events within the control system.


Enforce a password reset policy in the event of a compromise especially for VPNs and administrative


accounts.


Utilize up-to-date antivirus or endpoint security technologies to allow for the denial of known malware.


Configure an intrusion detection system so that rules can be quickly deployed to search for intruders.


Active Defense
Recommendations:

Train defenders to hunt for odd communications leaving the networked environment such as new IP

communications.
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
18
Recommendations

Perform network security monitoring to continuously search through the networked environment for

abnormalities.


Plan and train to incident response plans that incorporate both the IT and OT network personnel.


Consider active defense models for security operations such as the active cyber defense cycle.


Ensure that personnel performing analysis have access to technologies such as sandboxes to quickly
analyze incoming phishing emails or odd files and extract indicators of compromise (IOCs) to search for
infected systems.


Use backup and recovery tools to take digital images from a few of the systems in the supervisory
environment such as HMIs and data historian systems every 6-12 months. This will allow a baseline of
activity to be built and make the images available for scanning with new IOCs such as new YARA rules
on emerging threats.


Train defenders on using tools such as YARA to scan digital images and evidence collected from the
environment but do not perform the scans in the production environment itself.


Good architecture and passive defense practices build a defensible ICS; active defense processes establish a
defended ICS environment. Countering flexible and persistent human adversaries requires properly trained and
equipped human defenders.
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
19