User Access Logging (UAL)
5/21
The Windows User Access Logging (UAL) database is an extremely powerful artifact that has
played an instrumental role in the investigation of StellarParticle-linked cases. In particular,
UAL has helped our responders identify earlier malicious account usage that ultimately led to
the identification of the aforementioned TrailBlazer implant and Linux version of the GoldMax
variant.
The UAL database is available by default on Server editions of Windows starting with Server
2012. This database stores historical information on user access to various services (or in
Windows parlance, Roles) on the server for up to three years (three years minus one day) by
default. UAL contains information on the type of service accessed, the user that accessed the
service and the source IP address from which the access occurred. One of the most useful
roles recorded by UAL is the File Server role, which includes SMB access, though other role
types can also be very helpful. An overview of UAL, what information it contains and how it
can be leveraged in forensic investigations can be found here.
In multiple StellarParticle-related cases, because the threat actor used the same set of
accounts during their operations in the environment, CrowdStrike was able to identify previous
malicious activity going back multiple years, based solely on UAL data. Even though it’s only
available on Server 2012 and up, UAL can still be used to trace evidence of threat actor
activity on legacy systems as long as the activity on the legacy system involves some
(deliberate or unintentional) access to a 2012+ system. For example, in addition to tracking
SMB activity, UAL databases on Domain Controllers track Active Directory access.
This allowed CrowdStrike to demonstrate that a given user account was also authenticating to
Active Directory from a given source IP address two years prior. Because the user account
was known to have recently been abused by the threat actor, and the source IP of the system
in question was not one that account would typically be active on, the investigation led to the
source system and ultimately resulted in the timeline of malicious activity being pushed back
by years, with additional compromised systems even being discovered still running unique
malware from that time period.