3. Conclusions
Malware targeting the finance industry (both companies and consumers)
continues to evolve. The Carbanak malware used in the on-going campaign
described in this report has been very successful in terms of generating
revenue. Of particular interest are the attack methods, similar to those used
in sophisticated cyber-espionage APTs. As such, they represent a new and
disturbing trend in the cybercrime market of increasing attack sophistication.
Despite increased awareness of cybercrime within the financial services sector,
it appears that spear phishing attacks and old exploits (for which patches have
been disseminated) remain effective against larger companies. Attackers always
use this minimal effort approach in order to bypass a victim´s defenses.
Advanced control and fraud detection systems have been used for years by the
financial services industry. However, these focus on fraudulent transactions within
customer accounts. The Carbanak attackers bypassed these protections, by for
example, using the industry-wide funds transfer (the SWIFT network), updating
balances of account holders and using disbursement mechanisms (the ATM network).
In neither of these cases did the attackers exploit a vulnerability within the
service. Instead, they studied the victim´s internal procedures and pinpointed
who they should impersonate locally in order to process fraudulent transactions
through the aforementioned services.
It is clear that the attackers were very familiar with financial services software
and networks. As part of an automated reconnaissance phase, the Carbanak
malware checked victim systems for the presence of specialized and specific
banking software. Only after the presence of banking systems was confirmed,
were victims further exploited. To date, attacks against approximately 300 IP
addresses around the world have been observed on analyzed C2s. It is possible
that these attacks were coordinated to maximize returns prior to industry-wide
information sharing and the implementation of countermeasures.
Existing telemetry indicates that the Carbanak attackers are trying to expand
operations to other Baltic and Central Europe countries, the Middle East, Asia
and Africa. Carbanak may be responsible for losses as high as $1 billion USD.
We believe that the Carbanak campaign is a clear indicator of a new era in
cybercrime in which criminals use APT techniques directly against the financial
industry instead of through its customers. APTs are not only for stealing
information anymore.
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com