Intro:
botnet that was the scourge of security practitioners across the globe. This disruption,
which also impacted the nefarious CryptoLocker malware, provided the pause in
adversary activity needed by law enforcement to levy charges and take legal action to
permanently impact this malware.
In that same month, the U.S. Department of Justice charged five officers in the
People’s Liberation Army, the military organ of the People’s Republic of China, with
violating 18 U.S. Code § 1030. In June, CrowdStrike published a detailed analysis of
an actor associated with the 12th Bureau of the Third General Staff Department. This
report demonstrated a direct lineage between malware targeting a variety of western
technology and government targets, and an individual in the Chinese intelligence service.
The events that unfolded in the South China Sea near the Paracel Islands, the
emergence of ISIS, the unrest in Ukraine, and the disappearance of a Malaysian airliner
all took on a cyber element. This is no coincidence. The nation-states of the world are
all seeking the aforementioned decision advantage, and they know that the use of
interconnected computers allows them to collect intelligence that gives them the ability
to make informed decisions.
Our customers rely on us to provide them intelligence to thwart these attacks and make
informed decisions. This report will provide an overview of some of the intelligence
analyzed by the CrowdStrike team over the past year.
Wrapping so much analysis into one report means a lot of tough decisions needed to
be made on what to include. This report is structured to provide Key Findings first.
Following the key findings are some graph data based on the patterns that emerged
though visibility attained by the CrowdStrike team; this is meant to provide a snapshot
of the dozens of adversaries tracked this year. In the Notable Activity section, we cover
the three motivations that we see: Criminal, Targeted-Intrusion, and Hacktivist/Activist.
We explore notable activity around zero-day exploits and event-specific operations
conducted by these adversaries.
There are so many interesting actors we discovered this year, and even more that
advanced from previous years; the Know the Adversary section contains interesting
observations for just a few of the adversaries from the intelligence reports we
publish through the subscription service. Finally, we provide an analysis of the
2013 report predictions for the past year, and a forecast of what to expect in 2015.
5