Crimson Sandstorm
Crimson Sandstorm (CURIUM) is an Iranian threat actor assessed to be connected to the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). Active since at least 2017, Crimson
Sandstorm has targeted multiple sectors, including defense, maritime shipping,
transportation, healthcare, and technology. These operations have frequently relied on
watering hole attacks and social engineering to deliver custom .NET malware. Prior
research also identified custom Crimson Sandstorm malware using email-based
command-and-control (C2) channels. Crimson Sandstorm overlaps with the threat actor
tracked by other researchers as Tortoiseshell, Imperial Kitten, and Yellow Liderc.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/02/14/staying-ahead-of-threat-actors-in-the-age-of-ai/ 5/9
2/20/24, 2:27 PM Staying ahead of threat actors in the age of AI | Microsoft Security Blog
The use of LLMs by Crimson Sandstorm has reflected the broader behaviors that the
security community has observed from this threat actor. Interactions have involved
requests for support around social engineering, assistance in troubleshooting errors,
.NET development, and ways in which an attacker might evade detection when on a
compromised machine. Based on these observations, we map and classify these TTPs
using the following descriptions:
LLM-supported social engineering: Interacting with LLMs to generate various
phishing emails, including one pretending to come from an international
development agency and another attempting to lure prominent feminists to an
attacker-built website on feminism.
LLM-enhanced scripting techniques: Using LLMs to generate code snippets that
appear intended to support app and web development, interactions with remote
servers, web scraping, executing tasks when users sign in, and sending information
from a system via email.
LLM-enhanced anomaly detection evasion: Attempting to use LLMs for
assistance in developing code to evade detection, to learn how to disable antivirus
via registry or Windows policies, and to delete files in a directory after an application
has been closed.
All accounts and assets associated with Crimson Sandstorm have been disabled.