2017–Present: Becoming a Well-Oiled Machine
By 2017, Scattered Canary had business-critical tools and tactics in place and started to define
functional roles across an ever-expanding array of revenue streams. Some group members
were responsible for managing BEC campaigns, some for forging checks and money orders,
and still others for harvesting stolen credit card numbers for use in various cons. Like any
rapidly-growing company, Scattered Canary took infrastructure into consideration and quickly
added Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) servers to help them scale and coordinate operations.
Meanwhile, the organization continued to market-test new approaches to defrauding a
growing universe of victims.
Similar to how the group pivoted from individual victims to business targets during the
previous three-year period, Scattered Canary again set their sights on a new type of target
in 2017—government agencies. Using personal information obtained from various sources,
Scattered Canary started perpetrating fraud against US federal and state government
agencies. Notable targets include the ones listed here, among dozens of others.
20
Much of the fraudulent activity targeting government agencies has involved the use of a
technique that takes advantage of a “feature” within Gmail accounts. Unlike most online
services, Google does not recognize periods in email addresses. Instead, the email address
badscammer007@gmail.com and bad.scammer.007@gmail.com are both interpreted as the
same address and route email sent to each of those addresses to the same account.
Some cybercrime groups, including Scattered Canary, have exploited this feature by creating
numerous “dot variant” accounts on a single website that then directs communications for all
of those accounts to a single Gmail account. This allows scammers to scale their operations
more effectively by removing the need to create and monitor a different email account for
every account they create on a website.
Google Dot Accounts Used to File Fraudulent Tax Returns
Note: Actual Email Address Changed
Using this tactic, Scattered Canary facilitated a significant amount of fraudulent activity
against government institutions, including the following:
Filed 13 fraudulent tax returns with a
single online tax service
Submitted 12 change of address
requests with the US Postal Service
Applied for Texas state unemployment
benefits under nine identities
Submitted applications for FEMA
disaster assistance under three
identities
Submitted 11 fraudulent Social Security
benefit applications
In addition to the scams above, Scattered Canary also used this technique to submit at least 48
credit card applications at four US-based financial institutions, resulting in the approval of at
least $65,000 in fraudulent credit.
21
While Scattered Canary’s targeting of government institutions demonstrates a notable
evolution in their attacks, the group’s primary focus over the past few years has been
continuing to improve their BEC phishing campaigns. In July 2018, following a trend we have
observed across the entire BEC threat landscape, Scattered Canary changed their preferred
cash out mechanism from wire transfers to gift cards. For five months, the group’s primary
focus was to persuade employees to purchase Apple iTunes and Amazon gift cards based on a
supposed request from their CEO.
Like other scammers involved in gift card BEC scams, Scattered Canary laundered the gift
cards they received from victims through a peer-to-peer online cryptocurrency exchange
called Paxful. In our previous report on the Nigerian cybercriminal group Scarlet Widow, we
detailed the process by which stolen gift cards are converted into cash through a multi-step
laundering process using Paxful and other online cryptocurrency marketplaces.
Over the five-month span that Scattered Canary focused on collecting gift cards in their BEC
attacks, the group received at least 132 gift cards from victims, which netted them around
two bitcoin once they were traded on Paxful. Based on the price range of bitcoin during this
period, this translates to around $12,000 to $14,000 in profits. Interestingly, Scattered Canary
abandoned gift cards as a BEC cash out method in November 2018, at the same time the price
of bitcoin crashed.
Example of a Scattered Canary BEC Email Asking for Gift Cards
22
After Scattered Canary moved on from gift card scams, they transitioned to another type of
BEC attack: payroll diversion scams. In these types of scams, rather than socially engineering
a finance employee to wire money to a “vendor” account, the scammer targets employees in
a company’s human resources department to persuade them to change the direct deposit
account associated with a high-level executive’s payroll information.
Example of a Scattered Canary Payroll Diversion BEC Email
One of the reasons payroll diversion attacks have become a preferred BEC tactic for Scattered
Canary—as well as quickly emerging trend we’ve seen across the entire BEC threat landscape—
is because of the ability to use easily accessible prepaid debit cards to receive payroll direct
deposits. These prepaid debit cards come with a corresponding bank account, and they’re
much easier to set up. Rather than requiring a money mule to physically visit a bank branch to
open an account, the mule can simply register for a prepaid card online with a less stringent
application process and have a new card mailed directly to them. Combined with the fact
that most prepaid cards do not require credit checks, it is easy to see why this has become a
popular method for scammers.
23
This tactic, along with the introduction of a fairly
new threat actor we’ve named Zeta, has allowed
Scattered Canary to scale their payroll diversion
schemes very quickly. Since late 2017, Zeta
contributed the most prepaid card accounts to
the group and has fed Alpha with more than 140
prepaid card numbers in the last eighteen months
alone. Because of Scattered Canary’s focus and
success on this type of BEC scam, Zeta has quickly
become one of the most impactful associates in
the group today.
Overall, Scattered Canary’s membership has nearly
doubled over the past two years, adding another
15 actors to help scale the group’s operations.
While half of these new recruits came on board
to harvest new BEC mule accounts, the other half
were involved in other scams during this time, such
as mystery shopper scams and tax return fraud. In
total, 35 actors have been tied to Scattered Canary’s
operations since the group emerged in 2008.
24