Conclusions
The Carbanak group, which has a long track record of compromising infrastructure belonging to financial institutions, is still
active. Its purpose remains to manipulate financial assets, such as transferring funds from bank accounts or taking over ATM
infrastructures and instructing them to dispense cash at predetermined time intervals.
Bitdefender’s investigation shows the attackers’ main methods remain to quietly infiltrate the infrastructure by establishing a
foothold on an employee’s system, then move laterally across the infrastructure or elevate privileges to find critical systems that
manage financial transactions or ATM networks.
This attack falls in line with previous objectives observed in past attacks on other financial institutions, as the cybercriminal
organization targeted the ATM network to reach systems belonging to key people within the organization who have access to ATM
systems.
If the attack had succeeded, it would have given hackers control over the ATM network, while money mules would have been
standing by the ATM machines at pre-set time intervals to cash them out. They could have also been able to reset the cash-out limit
on ATMs, using a predetermined / preauthorized card. This way, money mules could have extracted the same amount over and over,
without the ATMs reporting any transactions to the bank.
It is not uncommon in a targeted attack for phishing emails to bypass anti-spam solutions deployed at the mail server level, which
is why it is good practice to deploy an in-depth security model that ensures URL filtering, behavior-based detection techniques and
sandboxing, aside from classical anti-malware solutions. An enterprise-level solution that looks at both network traffic and endpoint
behavior would observe lateral movements by the attacker and flag them for review by a security analyst.
The damage observed throughout the investigation process was limited to access of internal documents on the compromised
systems and user account credentials leaked.
[13]
White Paper