3. BIFF macro
In March 2020, we detected an XLS document from Cobalt that downloaded and ran the COM-DLL-Dropper. The document contained the rather
old Excel 4.0 macro format and was almost invisible to antivirus software (1 positive verdict out of 60 on VirusTotal).
Figure 27. Number of antivirus verdicts on VirusTotal during first upload of the file with Excel 4.0 macro
This macro standard is 20 years old. The standard is peculiar in that the macro is stored in worksheet cells (not stored in a VBA project), and the
worksheet itself can be hidden in Excel. The macro therefore will not be in a VBA stream, but in a BIFF (Binary Interchange File Format) record.
If we open the document in Excel, we see one worksheet and no VBA project macros. However, Excel all the same detects the macro and blocks it
from running.
The olevba3.py utility from oletools can be used to detect this macro.
Figure 28. Result of olevba3.py execution
By running the utility, we see that one of the document worksheets has the status "very hidden" and is of the Excel 4.0 macro type. Because of this
status, the worksheet will be invisible in the Excel interface and, what's more, it cannot be made visible from the interface either. It can only be
made visible by Visual Basic or by manually modifying the document's bytes.
The BiffView utility provides a more workable view of the BIFF structure. After parsing the initial document, we see that a page named
sygfdfdfdesie has the attribute "very hidden." We change this parameter to 1 or 0 in a hex editor.
Figure 29. Structure of malicious document worksheets
When the initial document is opened in the Name Manager, one of the formulas runs automatically:
Figure 30. Macro formula that runs when the document is opened
The initial formula launches a long chain of commands, such as CONCATENATE, RUN, CHAR, and CALL, which will lead to the loading and
launch of COM-DLL-Dropper. The commands are scattered across the Excel cells, complicating analysis.
Figure 31. Macro formulas leading to loading and launch of COM-DLL-Dropper