External Emails
While emails are generally well protected inside companies, external emails cannot be controlled the
same way. Employees regularly send emails to external addresses, hence some sensitive internal content
ending up outside the company’s purview. Even worse, sensitive information can be copied to unsecure
backup systems or stored locally on personal computers without standard corporate security protocols,
which makes it easier for attackers to get hold of the information. Once a computer is compromised, an
attacker can get the emails and use them in different ways to harm a company. For example, an actor
could leak them on public servers or services like Pastebin.
Figure 3. Sample content from an email found in the wild, sent from an oil company employee
to a third-party service provider
Even to someone not knowledgeable about the industry, it becomes clear that interesting information is
found when an email starts by mentioning a level of confidentiality.
Figure 4. Sample content from an email found in the wild indicating a “confidential” level of information
Defending Organizations Against Data Leaks
A company can identify leaked documents only if it has solid knowledge of all internal documents. Therefore,
any important document inside the company should be watermarked in a way that makes it discoverable
on the internet, since constantly monitoring for specific marks makes finding leaked documents easier.
Google Dorks based on documents’ characteristics and contents — it can be as simple as searching for
specific names associated with the word “confidential,” for example — and searches on online services
like Pastebin [17] should be done daily. The frequency is necessary since companies should be as reactive
as possible when a document appears in public or somewhere where it should not be.
Data leaks will happen at some point, whether by “bad handling or mistakes” or by malicious exposure.
The important thing is to find them before someone with bad intentions does, and have them removed
quickly.
14 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
One of the first steps in mitigating the risk of data leaks is to make a list of keywords that are critical to
a company. Specific watermarks of sensitive documents should also be collected. Automated search
queries for these keywords and watermarks on the internet can then be set up with a script. Even better,
a company can outsource all monitoring and data leak prevention to an external service provider that
specializes in preventing and mitigating data leaks.