Tactics, tools, and procedures
We observed the attackers using a wide variety of living-off-the-land, dual-use, and publicly
available tools and techniques in these attacks, including:
Network Reconnaissance – gathering information from machines on the network.
Credential Theft – stealing user names and passwords, potentially to provide them with
further access to the victim network.
RAR archiving – files are transferred to staging servers before exfiltration. They may be
encrypted or compressed, to make them easier to extract.
Certutil – a command-line utility that can be exploited and used for various malicious
purposes, such as to decode information, to download files, and to install browser root
certificates.
Adfind – a command-line tool that can be used to perform Active Directory queries.
Csvde – can be used to extract Active Directory files and data.
Ntdsutil – can be used as a credential-dumping tool.
WMIExec – can be used for lateral movement and to execute commands remotely.
PowerShell - a powerful interactive command-line interface and scripting environment
included in the Windows operating system. It can be used to find information and
execute code, and is frequently abused by malicious actors.
The threat actors also use a legitimate cloud file-hosting service for exfiltration.
The attackers also use DLL side-loading at multiple stages during the attack, including using
it to load Backdoor.Hartip. DLL side-loading occurs when attackers are able to replace a
legitimate library with a malicious one, allowing them to load malware into legitimate
processes. Attackers use DLL side-loading to try and hide their activity by making it look
legitimate, and it also helps them avoid detection by security software. It is a tactic that is
commonly used by APT groups and has often been observed being used by nation-state
backed actors. Monitoring networks for unusual activity, as Symantec’s Cloud Analytics
technology does, is key for detecting this kind of malicious activity.
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/cicada-apt10-japan-espionage 4/9
11/19/2020 Japan-Linked Organizations Targeted in Long-Running and Sophisticated Attack Campaign | Symantec Blogs
The attackers were also seen deploying a tool capable of exploiting the ZeroLogon
vulnerability (CVE-2020-1472). The critical elevation-of-privilege vulnerability was first
disclosed and patched on August 11, 2020, and can allow attackers to spoof a domain
controller account and then potentially use it to steal domain credentials, take over the
domain, and completely compromise all Active Directory identity services. It has been
exploited by multiple malicious actors since its disclosure, leading both Microsoft and the
Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
(CISA) to issue warnings to Windows users to patch the issue as quickly as possible.