~~SERVERS~~
During our research, we observed multiple Icefog command and control servers. Most of them
were on shared hosting platforms, however, some of them, which were of greater importance to the
attackers, were also using dedicated hosting.
Perhaps one of the most important aspects
of the Icefog C&Cs is the “hit and run” nature.
The attackers would set up a C&C, create a
malware sample that uses it, attack the victim,
infect it, and communicate with the victim
machine before moving on. The shared hosting
would expire in a month or two and the C&C
disappears.
The nature of the attacks was also very focused

in many cases, the attackers already knew

what they were looking for. The filenames were
quickly identified, archived, transferred to the
C&C and then the victim was abandoned.
Based on the C&C names, we were able to
identify several Icefog campaigns that were
active between 2011-2013.
From the timeline above, it seems the attackers
increased the number of campaigns in 2013
compared to previous years, although it’s
possible that malware and artifacts used in
earlier years are no longer available. Hence, the
chart probably represents only a fraction of the
attackers’ activity during the past years.
24
Command and Control servers
C&C SERVERS INFRASTRUCTURE
We identified four types of Icefog C&C servers - type “1”, “2”, “3” and type “4”. Also, there is a fifth,
standalone type of C&C, used for Icefog-NG, which runs as a Windows desktop application.
The type “1” C&C server uses a full web backend that lets the attacker directly control the victims
via a web browser. The type “1” C2 backend is written in ASP.NET.
The type “2” C&C server backend we identified acts as a virtual, custom proxy between the attackers
and the victims. It is written in ASP and is extremely simplistic in operation. This is more effective as
it conceals the attacker’s identity. The second type of C2 works in conjunction with a control tool,
probably running directly on the attacker’s PC.
The type “3” C&C server (used in the “starwings” and “disneyland” campaigns) appears to be
experimental and features only two basic functions: view and update. Its exact workings are unknown
and we haven’t been able to locate the Icefog malware that uses it.
The type “4” C&C server was identified through sinkholing of the domain “pinganw[dot]org”. (known
C2 URL - www.pinganw[dot]org/sugers/upfile.asp). Just like type “3”, the exact workings are
unknown and we haven’t been able to locate the Icefog malware that uses it.
The Icefog-NG C&C server is a Windows desktop application which doesn’t require a web server and
works as a standalone TCP server, which by default listens on port 5600.
Our analysis focuses on type “1” C&C servers, which are the most popular and have been used in
most of the attacks we observed.
25
COMMAND AND CONTROL SERVERS
Here’s a look at the type “1” command-and-control server login screen:
The command-and-control script (“control.aspx”) features an interesting comment
“shiyanlllllllllllllllllllllllllll”. The page title is “尖刀三号”, which means “Dagger Three” in Chinese.
26
Command and Control servers
For martial arts fans, the “尖刀三号” is quite similar to “三尖刀”, which is an ancient Chinese weapon.
The Type “1” C2 interface is written in ASP.NET and features an easy to use interface to communicate
with and manage the victims:
The “ManageSystem” C&C user interface (type “1”)
This control panel is actually a Visual Basic.NET web application with the following structure:
27
COMMAND AND CONTROL SERVERS
The application uses the native filesystem as the main storage to save stolen data, logs and
temporary files. Below is short description of directories used by the C&C application:
ok: “heartbeat” files with dates that indicate the last time a victim
was online.
downloads: files that were transferred from the victim at the request of the
operator.
uploads: files that should be pushed to the victim systems.
order: files containing instructions or commands that are to be
executed on the victims’ machines.
result: The result of command execution on the victims’ machines.
info: basic information about the victims’ systems.
logs: operator interaction logs, can be erased on request by the
operator.
files: additional files, including JavaScript, CSS and images used by
Control Panel web user interface.
Perhaps the most interesting part is that the type “1” C&C panel maintains a full history of the
attacker’s interaction with the victims. This is kept as an encrypted logfile, in the “logs” directory
on the server. In addition to that, the server maintains full interaction logs and command execution
results from each victim.
28
Command and Control servers
Below we can see an example of the attackers copying a number of files to “c:\temp\mslog” from
an USB flash drive connected to the computer with Korean Windows systems and preparing them
for upload to the C2:
In another example, we can see them uploading and running a type “2” backdoor on top of the type
“1” infection:
29
COMMAND AND CONTROL SERVERS
Interestingly, the modern Icefog-NG C&C application looks very similar to Icefog Web UI - it uses
the same multi-tab layout and even has the same tab titles. We believe that Icefog-NG was
developed by the same author to replace Icefog bot and the web-based Control Panels.
Icefog-NG File Control tab
30
Command and Control servers
Icefog-NG was designed to be more responsive and convenient to the operator. The data storage is
the same - local filesystem, and even the file names are the same as on the previous Icefog version.
Here is a screenshot of the user interface from the Icefog-NG C&C application.
Icefog-NG login prompt
Like with the web-based Icefog, this C&C application requires authorization of the operator. While
in the web version it made sense to authenticate remote users to restrict access to the Control
Panel, the desktop application authentication is easily bypassed, because the login and password
are hardcoded in the binary.
Here’s a look at the “victims” panel in the Icefog-NG C&C software:
Icefog-NG UI layout optimized for a screen resolution of 1280x1024
31
COMMAND AND CONTROL SERVERS
One curious fact about Icefog-NG is that it is usable only if you have screen resolution set at
1280x1024 or higher. Even on standard 1024x768, not all controls fit into screen. The application
was created using Microsoft Visual Studio MFC AppWizard. Although, the sample we analyzed
was compiled in May 2013, the project was most likely started in 2012, which is stated in the
“About Application” message box. This date is put automatically by the AppWizard when the code
is generated for the first time.
32
Infection data and statistics