Focus area 1 - key findings
Preparedness to defend against and
respond to a ransomware cyber attack
There was a lack of preparedness within the HSE to
defend against or respond to a ransomware cyber
attack. Key findings that contributed to this position
include:
1. FA1.KF1 The HSE did not have a single
responsible owner for cybersecurity, at senior
executive or management level at the time
of the Incident. Limited scenario planning was
performed to prepare for a ransomware incident
(see focus area 2, area 12: scenario planning
below for further detail). Nor were there clear
articulations of the HSE’s risk to a large-scale
ransomware cyber attack that considered known
cybersecurity weaknesses. These, alongside
the lack of a detailed cybersecurity strategy,
operating model or transformation plan can likely
be attributed to this cybersecurity leadership
absence.
2. FA1.KF2 There was no dedicated committee
that provided direction and oversight of
cybersecurity and the activities required
to reduce the HSE’s cyber risk exposure.
A cybersecurity forum [93] had previously been
established within the OoCIO but subsequently
disbanded before August 2019 [94] without
replacement. There was a process where risks
were raised to OoCIO management, but there
was no centralised decision making committee to
provide direction and decide on a suitable course
of action to mitigate these risks, considering the
cybersecurity capabilities and controls required.
3. FA1.KF3 There were known weaknesses and
gaps in key cybersecurity controls. The Board
presentation on cybersecurity [95] presented on
27 November 2020 highlighted there were many
areas of known cybersecurity weaknesses,
including known issues with excessive privileges
on accounts.
4. FA1.KF4 The lack of a cybersecurity forum
in the HSE hindered the ability for granular
cyber risks to be discussed and documented,
and for mitigating controls to be identified
and rapidly delivered. When gaps or issues
with cybersecurity controls and capabilities were
identified, there was no cybersecurity forum for
these to be raised at by OoCIO staff [96] (see FA1.
KF2). As a result, once cyber risks were identified,
action was not always taken with sufficient
priority. One interviewee reported that petitioning
for security tool or process changes was a “war
of attrition”.
5. FA1.KF5 The HSE did not have a centralised
cybersecurity function that managed
cybersecurity risk and controls. There was
no centralised team to set the vision and
tone for security and perform critical security
functions, most notably security monitoring and
cybersecurity control assurance activities. Further,
it should be noted that at the time of the Incident
the senior cybersecurity SME, the Information
Security Manager, was not performing their
business as usual role that included the NIST
based cybersecurity review of OES systems,
but was working on evaluating the security
controls for the COVID-19 vaccination system.
This illustrates the lack of resources available for
important cybersecurity activities.
6. FA1.KF6 It was a known issue that the teams
that included elements of cybersecurity in their
remit were under-resourced. [97] Further, within
the three cybersecurity teams (which had a total
FTE of 15 [98] ), team members predominantly had
IT backgrounds, not expertise and experience
in cybersecurity. These cybersecurity team
sizes do not correlate with the 4,000 locations
(1,200 networked), 130,000 staff, [99] over 70,000
devices and 54 hospitals [100] that make up the
health service. The HSE was therefore overly
reliant on its already stretched IT resources to
perform cybersecurity activities in good faith,
as evidenced by interview comments such as
“security is not in my job description but I do it
part time’’.
93 HSE OoCIO Security Advisory Group (SAG) Terms of Reference, February 2018
94 CLOSED - HSE Internal Audit Tracking_ICTA015OCIO0916_Internet Access Controls - Follow Up Audit, 28 August 2019
95 Cyber Security Board Awareness Draft V7.2.pdf, November 2020
96 Email with subject RE: FW: CI security solutions discussion document, UNDATED Reported as June 2020
97 Minutes of HSE Board Meeting, 27 November 2020
98 This comprises eight FTE within the Information Security Framework and Control team (two of which are students), the Security
Operations team of five FTE and the Security, Standard and Policies team of two FTE. Figures are based on interviewee assertion
and/(or) OoCIO Operating Model – 2020 Current State, December 2019.
99 https://www.hse.ie/eng/staff/resources/our-workforce/workforce-reporting/health-service-personnel-census-aug-2021-v2.pdf
100 Cyber Security Board Awareness Draft V7.2.pdf, November 2020
47 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
7. FA1.KF7 The HSE’s technology has grown
organically and is consequently overly
complex, increasing the vulnerability of the
HSE to cyber attacks. The HSE has a complex
technological environment that includes a
significant number of legacy systems, multiple onpremise email systems and multiple AD domains.
30,000 and 40,000 Windows 7 workstations [101]
that were deemed end of life by the vendor and
operating on extended support. Projects to
modernise, standardise and reduce complexity of
the IT estate were incomplete at the time of the
Incident. This can likely be attributed to: delays
reported in interviews as caused by the response
to COVID-19; the under-resourcing of technology
teams; the lack of a single governed programme
that maintained oversight, and the complexities of
the IT environment.
8. FA1.KF8 The HSE had a large and unclear
security boundary that encompassed many
of the organisations connected to the NHN.
The ‘flat’ design of the NHN with a lack of
network segmentation, paired with bi-direction
trust relationships between many AD domains,
resulted in many of the organisations connecting
to the NHN effectively being within the HSE’s
security boundary. This exposed the HSE to the
risk of cyber attacks from other organisations
connected to the NHN, as well as these other
organisations connected to the NHN to cyber
attacks originating from the HSE.
9. FA1.KF9 The HSE’s effective security boundary
did not align with its ability to mandate
cybersecurity controls. The HSE created a
network infrastructure where they did not have
the ability to mandate cyber controls to prevent
and detect ransomware attacks within all
organisations that fell within its security boundary
(see key finding FA1.KF8).
10. FA1.KF10 There was no effective security
monitoring capability that was able to detect,
investigate and respond to security alerts
across the HSE’s IT environment. The HSE did
not have the modern security tooling needed to
detect and prevent ransomware, nor did it have
trained security analysts internally or within a
Security Operations Center (“SOC”) that were
able to monitor the available antivirus alerts to
investigate, triangulate and respond to potential
threats.
11. FA1.KF11 The antivirus tool ( Endpoint
Security) was over-relied upon to detect and
prevent threats on endpoints. Solely relying on
antivirus is not sufficient to protect against the
tools and attack techniques used by ransomware
groups (and many other modern attackers).
Further it should be noted that this antivirus tool:
• was not monitored 24/7;
• was not deployed across the full endpoint
environment;
• was evidenced as not being correctly
configured on all workstations;
• was not configured to block malicious activity
within the server estate, only to monitor it.
101 Data provided from the antivirus management server (the server) of systems that last communicated with
within the last 3 months, September 2021
National health network (NHN) describes the technology network for the delivery of Health services primarily to HSE staff and
secondarily to the staff in the voluntary sector
48 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
12. FA1.KF12 The IT environment had high-
risk gaps relating to 25 out of 28 of the
cybersecurity controls [102] that are most
effective at detecting and preventing human-
operated ransomware attacks. [103] A highlevel assessment of the HSE’s cybersecurity
capabilities, using PwC’s proprietary ransomware
readiness framework, [104] at the time of the
Incident is shown in Figure 11. Further, of the
cybersecurity controls implemented, limited
assurance activities were performed to test their
operational efficiency. This assessment has been
performed to provide an illustration of the level
of cybersecurity controls in place at the time of
the incident specifically in relation to ransomware
attacks.
A Board presentation [105] on cybersecurity
presented on 27 November 2020 highlighted how
several of these controls were areas of known
cybersecurity weakness, although the link to a
risk of widespread impact from a ransomware
attack was not made. Implementing many of
these controls would have been highly likely to
have prevented or detected techniques used by
the Attacker and therefore significantly increased
the Attacker’s difficulty in compromising the HSE
and achieving their objectives.
13. FA1.KF13 The HSE did not have a documented
cyber incident response plan and had not
performed typical preparatory activities
such as exercising the technical response.
The HSE did not have an exercised plan for
managing and coordinating a cybersecurity
incident that impacted the HSE as well as multiple
organisations across the NHN. There were no
documented cyber incident response runbooks
or IT recovery plans (apart from documented AD
recovery plans) for recovering from a wide-scale
ransomware event.
102 Based on PwC’s proprietary ransomware capability framework (see section Preparation: cybersecurity controls before the
ransomware attack for further detail), HSE is scored high or very high risk against 25 of the 28 capabilities
103 Human-operated ransomware attacks are different to traditional ransomware attacks in that they are ‘hands-on-keyboard’ attacks.
This involves human attackers using knowledge of offensive techniques and weaknesses in enterprise IT systems, to methodically
compromise organisations’ networks, compromise systems, overcome defence and cause maximum impact. The ransomware
attack that impacted HSE is an example of a human-operated ransomware attack. For further details see: https://www.pwc.com/
jg/en/publications/responding-to-growing-human-operated-ransomware-attacks-threat.pdf
104 PwC’s proprietary ransomware readiness framework lists the most important cybersecurity controls we have identified to prevent,
detect and respond to human-operated ransomware attacks. Focus area 1 used this framework as it allowed the review to evaluate
HSE’s cyber security controls at the time of the Incident against the specific threat of human-operated ransomware attacks. Focus
area 3 have performed a wider review of HSE’s cybersecurity preparedness and maturity levels using the NIST cybersecurity and
COBIT framework
105 Cyber Security Board Awareness Draft V7.2.pdf, November 2020
49 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Figure 11: High-level assessment of the HSE’s cybersecurity capabilities against PwC’s proprietary ransomware
readiness framework, colour coded by their risk rating, as at the time of the Incident.
Risk Rating* Very High High Moderate Low Very Low
50 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
Response to the ransomware cyber
attack
There were opportunities to detect malicious activity
prior to the detonation phase of the ransomware.
Following the execution of ransomware, the HSE
mobilised a response to overcome the significant
challenges posed by both the attack and its lack of
preparedness.
Key findings relating to the response to Attacker
activity in the days leading up to the Incident include:
1. FA1.KF14 The cyber attack was not
actively identified or contained prior to the
ransomware execution, despite the Attacker
performing noisy and ‘unstealthy’ actions. The
investigation determined that the ransomware
attack originated from a malware infection on
patient zero on 18 March 2021, when the user
opened a malicious Microsoft Office Excel
document that was attached to a phishing email.
Following this, the Attacker continued to operate
in the environment, including compromising and
abusing a significant number of highly privileged
(e.g., system administrator) accounts and moving
laterally to both statutory and voluntary hospitals.
Many of the tools and techniques employed
by the Attacker during this time period (which
included the use of basic and non-obfuscated
malicious PowerShell commands), were wellknown to be used by ransomware groups. As
such, they would have almost certainly been
identified by modern security monitoring tooling
and a security monitoring capability. It should
be noted that the HSE’s antivirus tool (
Endpoint Security) did record detections of these
tools [106] but these were not actively identified or
thoroughly investigated by the HSE’s teams (see
next finding).
2. FA1.KF15 The HSE’s antivirus identified a
tool commonly used by ransomware groups
(Cobalt Strike) on six servers on 7 May 2021
(and several more servers in the following
days) but these alerts were not appropriately
actioned. The HSE did not identify these alerts
until after their cybersecurity solutions provider
flagged them on 12 May 2021 [107] and 13 May
2021. [108] At that point, the retained third party
‘critical incident response service’, was not
invoked, [109] despite the alerts being for a tool
commonly used by ransomware groups (Cobalt
Strike) and being across multiple servers. The
response to these detections was not sufficient as
the HSE did not; invoke a cybersecurity incident;
escalate the cybersecurity incident; identify the
severity of the threat; or thoroughly investigate
and contain the threat. This was a result of
insufficient cybersecurity expertise to understand
the significance of these detections and an
absence of cyber response governance and
processes to guide the response to cybersecurity
incidents.
3. FA1.KF16 Two voluntary hospitals identified
suspicious activity prior to the execution of
ransomware, but a HSE centralised response
was not initiated. On 10 May 2021, Hospital C
identified activity on a domain controller (“DC”)
that they suspected as malicious and so sought
advice from Hospital C’s cybersecurity solutions
provider on whether the alerts warranted
concern. [110] The third-party stated that since
the threat has been handled by their antivirus
tool that “the risk is low here”. As a result of the
third party’s email response, Hospital C did not
initiate a cyber incident response investigation,
and therefore did not identify a cybersecurity
incident. On the evening of 12 May 2021, Hospital
A notified the OoCIO that its network had been
compromised [111] and suspected malicious activity
was originating from the HSE. [112,113] The HSE
performed an IT-centric investigation on 13 May
2021 that incorrectly concluded that the HSE was
“under threat from Hospital A, not the other way
around”. [114] Following this, the HSE did not seek
the help of an external cyber incident response
firm nor the NCSC to investigate and provide
guidance on how to respond to the detections.
106 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
107 Email from the HSE’s cybersecurity solutions provider to the SecOps team with subject “Threat Not Handled”, 12 May 2021
108 Email from the HSE’s cybersecurity solutions provider to the SecOps team with subject “Threat Not Handled”, 13 May 2021
109 Appendix 7: Services Contract, Health Service Executive and the HSE’s cybersecurity solutions provider Information Systems
Limited Agreement Relating to the Provision of Services pursuant to Request for Tenders for the Establishment of a Multi Supplier
Framework for the provision of Security Software and Associated Reseller Services, 24 December 2017
110 Logging call with Hospital C’s cybersecurity solutions provider on 10/05/2021 17:06, 10 May 2021
111 Email with subject: Query, 12 May 2021 23:53
112 Email with subject: FW: Recognise these addresses??, 12 May 2021 23:36
113 Email with subject: FW: Query, 12 May 2021 23:53
114 Email with subject: RE: Summary 13 May 2021 12:47
51 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
The HSE did not link these events to the antivirus
tool detections that their cybersecurity solutions
provider had notified.
4. FA1.KF17 Two organisations successfully
acted on detections of the Attacker preventing
the deployment of ransomware within their
estates. The DoH and Hospital A successfully
acted on alerts and detections of suspicious
activity, and engaged third-party incident
response services. The DoH quickly deployed
EDR security tooling [115] that was then able to
prevent the ransomware from executing on the
majority of its infrastructure, including critical and
data servers. Hospital A engaged the Hospital
A’s Incident Response provider, who worked
with them to use their already deployed security
tool. Had the HSE responded in a similar fashion
(particularly following the escalations made by
Hospital A and the HSE’s cybersecurity solutions
provider) then it is likely that the widespread
encryption of the HSE environment would have
been prevented.
Key findings relating to the response to the
detonation phase of the ransomware attack include:
1. FA1.KF18 The HSE with the help of third-
parties mobilised a response to the
ransomware attack and overcame many of
the significant challenges the ransomware
attack presented, drawing on their experience
responding to crises, including COVID-19. The
HSE recognised the need for additional resources
and specialist skills and engaged third parties
for incident response [116,117] legal and forensics
support early on. The impact of the Incident
on a national scale encouraged goodwill from
third party support and vendors, including the
provision of pro bono work. This allowed a good
cadence to be established within 24-48 hours
that included multiple daily standups, Major
Incident (MI) meetings and other programme
governance. The HSE developed effective
response structures and processes that evolved
over the course of the response. The decision to
set up a physical hub for operations in Citywest
(on 21 May 2021 [118] ) was widely reported as being
invaluable to working collaboratively between
different response and recovery teams, whilst also
boosting morale.
2. FA1.KF19 The HSE was reliant on third-parties
in the early weeks of the Incident to provide
structure to the response activities. The first
physical hub for senior management was set
up 15 May 2021 [119] in a third party organisation,
before moving to accommodation at Citywest
on 21 May 2021. [120] The Defence Forces were
brought in 18 May 2021 and were widely reported
in interviews to have provided key response
structures.
3. FA1.KF20 Time was lost during the response
due to a lack of pre-planning for high impact
technology events. The HSE was not prepared
to respond to a cyber incident of this scale
(“everything going offline”) due to the lack of
defined and exercised response processes and
plans. Key examples of this include:
• No cybersecurity response plans and
playbooks;
• No security tooling capable of investigating
and remediating security alerts;
• No centralised list of contact details for all
HSE staff or asset register;
• No offline copies of key IT and security
documentation were kept, for example
network diagrams;
• No pre-established prioritised list of
applications and systems for recovery, based
on clinical services, that was cognisant of
cross-technology dependencies;
• No pre-agreed, setup and tested out-of-band
communication system that would enable
users to communicate in the event of a
cybersecurity incident. Multiple collaboration
and communication platforms were used
after the Incident resulting in confusion and
team members not being able to easily
communicate; increasing the day-to-day
difficulty of responders.
115 Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)
116 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
117 Minutes of Cyber Attack MI Meeting 10 am - 14052021, 14 May 2021
118 Conti Cyber Response NCMT Structures Governance and Admin V1.10, 31 May 2021
119 Programme RAID Log, 2021
120 Programme RAID Log, 2021
52 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
4. FA1.KF21 The HSE spent a significant
amount of time during the response
gathering information about applications,
as this information was not recorded and
up-to-date in a central or offline application
register. The lack of centralised information
about applications caused inefficiencies in the
response as the HSE did not have up-to-date
information on applications. This meant that as
part of their response, they had to develop a
list of applications that were in use within the
corporate, acute and community spaces. As well
as identify and define missing details such as
the application’s owner, its priority for recovery,
details of the systems they were hosted on and in
some cases the application’s purpose. For some
applications, the HSE was reliant on vendors to
pull this information together, and provide the
information critical to the application’s recovery.
5. FA1.KF22 There was a heavy reliance on
specific individuals during the response. This
likely contributed to a recovery timeline that
was longer than could have been achieved.
There was a heavy reliance on key members
of staff in IT teams that effectively caused
bottlenecks. This was due to the large scope
of their BAU IT roles and responsibilities, the
lack of IT resourcing and a lack of documented
and standardised information and procedures.
This concentration of knowledge prevented
opportunities for further delegation (such as
acquiring more burst capacity from third parties)
and meant that the HSE had limited response
resilience if these individuals had become
unavailable during the critical weeks of the
response.
6. FA1.KF23 The response initially prioritised
the recovery of foundational systems,
and applications on the OES list [121] , before
advancing to an approach that focused on
clinical risks and the recovery of end-to-end
clinical services. Before the incident there
was not a complete and documented list that
prioritised all HSE applications and systems. As
a result IT teams initially focused on restoring
the seven priority clinical applications that were
identified in the OES list. [122] The recovery strategy
advanced from the restoration of these seven
applications, to be centered around recovery
of end-to-end clinical service (including the
dependencies of applications to restore end-to
end clinical services) following the co-location of
all responders to Citywest on 21 May 2021. [123]
7. FA1.KF24 There was a lack of clearly defined
and delineated decision making authority
between the HSE, hospitals and CHOs in the
case of a health service-wide crisis. After the
ransomware attack was identified, the OoCIO
gave a central mandate to power down systems
and wait for instructions (whilst they assessed
the impact and established next steps) as there
was not a delineated decision making structure
to allow for local nuances. At least one hospital
(Hospital B) used a third party to review their
environment and confirm that it was unaffected by
the ransomware. Invoking local decision making
during this initial interim period allowed the
hospital to regain IT systems and provide critical
radiotherapy services within the first week of the
Incident.
8. FA1.KF25 The OoCIO was not able to provide
or source (through third party burst capacity)
the scale of the IT support required by
hospitals and CHOs during the extended
response to restore applications, systems
and services at pace. The centralised IT team
structure of the HSE meant that little IT subject
matter expertise was available locally within the
HSE’s hospitals and CHOs. It was widely reported
by hospitals and CHOs [124] that they were heavily
reliant on the central OoCIO IT resources for
response activities and on personal relationships
with OoCIO IT teams to progress and unblock
tasks. The OoCIO IT resources were however,
already stretched performing national ransomware
attack response activities and therefore struggled
to effectively prioritise this help.
9. FA1.KF26 The HSE had limited to no ability to
investigate the attack using its own tooling.
The HSE was not centrally collecting and retaining
logging from systems, network and security
tooling. The central collation point for their
antivirus alerts (the antivirus management server)
was encrypted and deemed unrecoverable as a
result of the ransomware attack. The encryption
of the antivirus server meant that the HSE was
unable to determine the circumstances and audit
trail surrounding what detections were reported
back to the central console in the lead up to the
ransomware execution. Therefore, without the
deployment of their Incident Response provider’s
121 The Network and Information Systems Directive (NIS-D) 2016/1148 was signed into Irish law on 18 September 2018. It involves the
application of security obligations on operators of essential services (OES). HSE interviewees referred to an ‘OES application and
system list’ they compiled in line with NIS-D obligations.
122 DOE Application Catalogue and Critical Services as defined under NIS Directive Final
123 Conti Cyber Response NCMT Structures Governance and Admin V1.10, 31 May 2021
124 Observations made are based on interviews with a sample of nine hospitals (5 statutory and 4 voluntary) and 2 CHOs
53 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
endpoint agent the HSE would have had no ability
to perform forensic analysis over their systems
and therefore fully investigate the attack.
10. FA1.KF27 The HSE’s Incident Response
provider identified evidence of how the
Attacker was able to gain unauthorised access
to the HSE’s IT environment and the Attacker’s
subsequent activities. The HSE worked closely
with their Incident Response provider to ensure
they had the available information required to
enable an effective investigation and response.
This resulted in an investigation that identified
evidence of how the Attacker was able to gain
unauthorised access to the HSE’s IT environment
and what the Attacker did once they were able to
gain this access.
Key findings from the investigation [125] included that
the Attacker:
• gained unauthorised access to the HSE network
through a phishing email on 18 March 2021 (this
activity was attributed to the Attacker the HSE’s
Incident Response provider refer to as UNC2633);
• used a number of tools commonly utilised by
human-operated ransomware groups to perform
reconnaissance and move laterally through the
HSE’s environment (compromising 180 systems);
• used the network connectivity provided by the
NHN as well as the bidirectional trust between
several AD domains to easily move laterally
across to six voluntary hospitals and one statutory
hospital;
• used an exploit that was widely publicised as a
critical patch [126] to gain access to the networks of
two hospitals;
• compromised at least highly privileged
accounts [127] across HSE, Hospital A, Hospital K,
Hospital L, Hospital J and Hospital B; [128]
• browsed local or remote folders on systems
across HSE and four organisations;
• opened files and attempted to view them using
RDP; [129]
• made copies of files;
• created archives (.zip and .rar) of files;
• accessed the file sharing website Domain A; and,
• deployed ransomware throughout several
organisations connected to the NHN.
Additionally, the malware (which
includes an Outlook module to harvest contact
information and email content from infected hosts)
was identified on several hosts within the HSE’s
environment. An output from the execution of this
module was identified on one system within the
HSE’s domain.
The investigation was unable to identify conclusive
evidence that data exposed to the Attacker was
then successfully exfiltrated by the Attacker out of
the HSE’s environment (for example to a file sharing
website). However, it is known that the Attacker
provided samples of the HSE’s and Hospital D’s
(a Section 38 hospital and therefore independent
data controller [130] ) data in a chat room (accessed via
a link in the ransom note) and that some data was
published on the dark web. [131] It is also known that
the Financial Times published redacted extracts of
the published data (which was verified as originating
from the attack on 14 May 2021) [132] and then worked
to provide a copy of this data to the HSE’s Incident
Response provider on 25 May 2021. [133]
Hospital D conducted its own review of the data
provided by the Financial Times and made a decision
to notify identified data subjects as per Article 34
GDPR. [134] The HSE reviewed the data provided by
the Financial Times and confirmed that the HSE
data related to a Statutory Hospital (“Hospital M”),
for which the HSE is the data controller. The HSE
assessed the personal data risk to the rights and
freedoms of individuals within this data set to be
low [135] and therefore it was deemed not necessary to
inform the relevant data subjects.
125 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
126 The threat actor used the exploit to gain access to the networks of Hospital A and Hospital B. The
exploit was widely publicised and given a Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS which is a framework for communicating
the characteristics and severity of software vulnerabilities) score of 10/10.
127 The compromised accounts consist of two ‘enterprise admins’, 26 ‘domain admins’, two ‘administrator’, one ‘admin’ and two
‘service desk admin’.
128 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
129 Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) provides a user a graphical interface to connect to a remote computer over a network connection.
130 Response to questions raised by the Data Protection Commission to HSE DPO on June 2021, July 2021
131 Privileged and Confidential Terms of Reference Legal and Data Steering Group V004, June 2021
132 Privileged and Confidential Terms of Reference Legal and Data Steering Group V004, June 2021
133 Draft OoCIO Cyber Governance Report v0.2, UNDATED
134 Response to questions raised by the Data Protection Commission to HSE DPO on June 2021, July 2021
135 Response to questions raised by the Data Protection Commission to HSE DPO on June 2021, July 2021
54 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
The HSE retained a third party to conduct additional
in-depth forensic analysis on the systems identified
by their Incident Response provider (where data
was exposed to the threat actor), to determine the
probability of data exfiltration from these systems
and to identify any other potential data exposure and
exfiltration sources. The HSE has also retained two
third party services to perform ongoing dark web and
web monitoring activities.
At the time of this report, the work aligned to the
HSE’s Legal and Data workstream established on
19 May 2021 [136] is ongoing. As of yet, therefore the
HSE has not made any data subject notifications but
continues to work closely with the DPC.
The impact of and recovery from the
ransomware cyber attack
Due to the scale and impact of the ransomware,
paired with the complex and legacy IT environment,
the technical recovery of IT systems has been
challenging. Key findings on the technical impact of
the Incident include:
1. FA1.KF28 The impact of the ransomware on
the IT environment was reported by the HSE’s
management to lead to 80% [137] encryption. The
HSE’s Incident Response provider’s investigation
identified encrypted files on systems within the
HSE and the following voluntary and statutory
hospitals: Hospital C; Hospital K; Hospital D;
Hospital L; Hospital J and Hospital B. [138] The
HSE was the most impacted by the ransomware
attack, with all nine of its domains displaying
evidence of encryption. [139] In total, the HSE’s
Incident Response provider identified over
2,800 servers and 3,500 workstations across 15
domains, with evidence of encryption. [140] This
likely represents a lower bound on the number
of systems encrypted, as some systems were
restored from backups or rebuilt prior to endpoint
agent deployment, reducing the HSE’s Incident
Response provider’s ability to determine if
encryption had occurred.
2. FA1.KF29 The impact of the ransomware
attack on communications was severe, as the
HSE almost exclusively used on-premise email
systems (Exchange and ) that
were encrypted, and therefore unavailable,
during the attack. The HSE had begun to
migrate users to Exchange Online
but this was limited to pilot projects at the time
of the Incident and had been identified by the
HSE as a complex project to deliver. Had the
HSE invested in reducing email complexity and
completed migrating staff to Exchange Online, the
impact of the ransomware on email would have
likely been minimal, reducing the impact to team
collaboration. See key finding FA1.KF38 for the
detail regarding email recovery.
Key findings on the recovery include:
3. FA1.KF30 The HSE took action to contain
the ransomware attack by powering down
systems and disconnecting the NHN from the
internet. These containment steps restricted the
ability of the Attacker to further their activities and
in the face of spreading ransomware within an
architecturally open environment were the most
pragmatic. The HSE did not have the realistic
option of carrying out a more compartmentalised
approach that accounted for the impact on
organisations, due to the open design of the
NHN, the immaturity of cybersecurity controls and
governance, and as this had not been planned for
or rehearsed.
4. FA1.KF31 It is unclear how much data would
have been lost if a decryption key had not
become available. It was reported that online
backups were encrypted in places and that
secondary backups to tape were only made
periodically. Therefore it is highly likely that
segments of data would have been unrecoverable
from backups, and a full recovery of data was
only possible due to the provision of a decryption
key by the Attacker.
5. FA1.KF32 Without the decryption key, it is
unknown how long it would have taken to
recover systems from backups but it would
have likely taken considerably longer. Prior
to receiving the decryption key, the HSE was
recovering systems from backups. This would
have required a significant amount of IT resources
and equipment to be undertaken at the scale
required to recover all servers and applications.
136 Privileged and Confidential Terms of Reference Legal and Data Steering Group V004, June 2021
137 Percentage confirmed in interview by the CTO within OoCIO Infrastructure and Technology
138 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
139 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
140 HSE’s Incident Response provider Intrusion Investigation Report, September 2021
55 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
6. FA1.KF33 The HSE missed opportunities for
efficiencies in the recovery of systems and
applications due to a lack of preparedness.
The lack of preparedness for a widespread
disruptive IT event often created bottlenecks and
prevented teams from being able to get to work
on the highest priority tasks. In particular, the
lack of a comprehensive, current asset register
mapped to critical services delayed recovery
efforts due to the wait between teams as this
information was gathered and through unknown
dependencies creating inefficiencies.
7. FA1.KF34 The processes and response
structures for recovering systems and
applications were designed and developed in
response to the Incident. Many of the processes
used to recover systems and applications were
developed during the crisis. This resulted in a
lack of immediate awareness, understanding and
implementation of agreed processes from staff
members potentially increasing the HSE’s cyber
risk at the time of the response. For example,
there was at least one instance of a potentially
compromised system being reconnected to the
network (before it was confirmed as clean and
pre-authorised by the HSE’s Incident Response
provider and the Tech Team [141] ), inadvertently
exposing the HSE to a heightened level of risk.
8. FA1.KF35 The HSE’s Incident Response
provider and the HSE, developed go-to-
green processes [142,143,144] to ensure the secure
recovery of systems and reduce the risk of
further ransomware attacks. The HSE’s Incident
Response provider and the HSE developed
requirements that every system within the HSE,
voluntaries and CHOs must meet before being
able to rejoin the network, and for organisations
to be reconnected back to the NHN and the
internet.
9. FA1.KF36 The complexities of recovering
applications and systems were not well
understood. Due to the unknown dependencies
between systems and a lack of recovery process
pre-planning, recovery efforts were complicated.
For example, recovery teams reported that it was
difficult to facilitate vendor support. As a result,
workarounds (such as using screen shares to
provide vendors with temporary access) had
to be employed. These workarounds were also
in some cases further complicated through the
inconsistency in access to collaboration tools
(see response to the detonation phase of the
ransomware attack key findings FA1.KF18 - FA1.
KF27).
10. FA1.KF37 Despite the challenges presented
by the ransomware attack and the lack of
preparedness, the HSE was able to recover
1,075 applications and over 87,000 systems. [145]
Our review consistently noted the willingness
of HSE staff members across the organisation
to come together and contribute wherever
needed to deliver services to patients. The
HSE recovered their primary identity systems (
AD domain) within a matter of days
after the ransomware attack. The HSE was able
to prioritise and restore applications and systems
during the response including:
• After one month, the HSE was able to decrypt
47% of servers and fully restore 48% of Acute
applications, 40% of Community Services
applications and 64% of business services
applications. [146]
• After two months, the HSE was able to
decrypt 94% of servers and fully restore 85%
of Acute applications, 94% of Community
Services applications and 79% of business
services applications. [147]
• After three months, the HSE reported that
100% of servers were decrypted and they
were able to fully restore 95% of Acute
applications, 98% of Community Services
applications and 91% of business services
applications. [148]
141 Minutes of Cyber Attack MI Meeting 11 am - 19052021, 19 May 2021
142 Voluntaries and Go-to-Green, 26 May 2021
143 CTO Document Device Go Green Draft Approach, 23 May 2021
144 CTO Document Remote Access Go Green Draft Approach, 24 May 2021
145 Weekly Brief, 21 September 2021
146 SITCEN SITUATION REPORT, 18:30 14 June 2021
147 Weekly Brief, 20 July 2021
148 Weekly Brief, 21 September 2021
56 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
11. FA1.KF38 HSE had significant issues with
restoring email back to normal operations
for users, resulting in ongoing disruption to
employees. Due to the complexity of the email
infrastructure, even when the service was itself
restored, user level disruptions such as empty
mail boxes continued to affect staff’s ability to
perform recovery and BAU activities. Ongoing
disruption with email services impacted the staff’s
ability to recover applications and systems. Since
the ransomware attack, there has been over
38,000 tickets raised with the national service
desk relating to ongoing issues with email. [149] Over
20,000 of those tickets were raised between 20
July 2021 [150] and 21 September 2021. [151]
12. FA1.KF39 The strategy to prioritise national
systems recovery over local systems meant
that statutory hospitals and CHOs that were
not yet using ‘standard’ infrastructure (some
with limited local IT resources) experienced
recovery delays. Organisations not yet
using ‘standard’ infrastructure (for example,
organisations not using national applications)
were effectively deprioritised by the strategy to
prioritise national systems. This was then further
compounded for hospitals and CHOs with little
to no IT resource and who were therefore wholly
reliant on the OoCIO for their recovery.
Sustainable reduction of risk since the
ransomware attack
The focus of the HSE’s activities since the attack has
been on implementing recommendations provided
by third parties and to continue to recover systems.
Limited evidence has been provided to show that
activity has yet to take place to ensure that the HSE’s
cyber risk exposure is reduced sustainably.
Key findings on the improvements made by the HSE
post cyber incident, and on HSE’s current approach
and current ability to sustainably reduce cyber risk,
include:
1. FA1.KF40 The HSE engaged their Incident
Response provider to continue providing a
managed detection and response service to
March 2022. This capability is the most crucial
defence the HSE has against further ransomware
attacks at present, and provides a valuable ‘safety
net’ given the inherent weaknesses in cyber
security controls across the estate. The HSE has
not yet identified a long-term replacement for the
managed detection and response service, with
the current solution ending in March 2022. [152]
2. FA1.KF41 The HSE increased the scope of
services provided by the current third parties
to provide 24x7 monitoring capability of its
antivirus tool [153] and cloud environment. [154]
The HSE’s cybersecurity solutions provider
and Third Party B provide a 24x7 security
monitoring service limited to the antivirus tool (
Endpoint Security) and Microsoft Cloud
platforms [155] (which includes the HSE
tenancy [156] ) respectively.
3. FA1.KF42 Improvements to the HSE’s in-house
Security Operations capability (for example
defining processes and documenting response
roles) have not yet been implemented. These
improvements along with other immediate
improvements identified are critically important
to ensure that alerts of malicious activity will be
investigated and escalated with due care. As of
yet there is little evidence to show that any ‘quick
fixes’ to the HSE’s security monitoring capability
have been implemented beyond the retaining of
third party monitoring services.
149 21 September 2021 Weekly Brief, 2021
150 20 July 2021 Weekly Brief, 2021
151 21 September 2021 Weekly Brief, 2021
152 https://irl.eu-supply.com/ctm/Supplier/PublicTenders/ViewNotice/248668
153 Service Contract Agreement – Addendum 1 Managed Security Monitoring & Incident Response Service 24-Hours / 365 Days,
Prepared 21 June 2021 (Unsigned)
154 Response to questions raised by the Data Protection Commission to HSE DPO on June 2021, July 2021
155 Response to questions raised by the Data Protection Commission to HSE DPO on June 2021, July 2021
156 Confirmed by the General Manager Head of Technology, Infrastructure & Deployment within OoCIO Infrastructure and Technology
by email, 8 October 2021
57 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
4. FA1.KF43 The HSE was not empowered to
mandate that voluntary hospitals continue
with the improved levels of security monitoring
(or other security controls); this could expose
the health service to the risk of further cyber
attacks. The HSE does not have the authority to
mandate voluntary hospitals continue to use the
HSE’s Incident Response provider’s Managed
Defence monitoring agent or replace this with
a like-for-like replacement (which will require
ongoing cybersecurity expenditure). If voluntary
hospitals do not maintain the current capability
or procure a similar, market leading solution, then
this will expose the HSE and wider health service
to risk of further cyber attacks. This illustrates
how the HSE’s security boundary continues
to be misaligned with their ability to mandate
cybersecurity controls.
5. FA1.KF44 A finalised security improvement
plan [157,158,159,160] does not exist and the
draft security improvement plan and
programme [161,162,163,164] is unlikely to significantly
reduce the risk of future ransomware attacks.
The current draft plan and programme is a
consolidation of IT projects and identified gaps. It
also highlights the need to create a final security
improvement plan with defined governance and
accountability across the organisation. Therefore
at present no improvement plan exists that is
structured or architected using a cyber threat
view that centres on improvements around key
cybersecurity capability areas that are most
effective at detecting and preventing humanoperated ransomware attacks. It does identify
some gaps in these capability areas as items
to be addressed in long-term planning [165] but it
should be noted that improvement in these gaps
are crucial to reducing the risk of ransomware
attacks in the short term.
6. FA1.KF45 A holistic view of cybersecurity
improvement activities does not yet exist
which increases the risk that foundational
improvement activities will be missed. There
is a risk that the HSE’s current approach to focus
action around the remediation activities outlined
by their Incident Response provider, will likely
lead to a piecemeal approach that does not
take account of the fundamental root causes of
such issues. For example, at present it is well
known that there are issues with the coordination
and tracking of the response to security alerts
between technology teams, but the resolution of
this is not yet included within any finalised plans.
7. FA1.KF46 There is no centralised governance
programme that maintains oversight of
identified cybersecurity improvements,
resulting in a lack of clarity about what has
been delivered and what remains to be
done. Improvement actions are currently being
discussed at technological operational meetings
and a programme management governance
structure to oversee these activities and produce
centralised progress figures against agreed
milestones is yet to be developed. This has
resulted in a lack of clarity around what security
improvements have been delivered, and what
security improvements still need to be delivered in
response to the Incident.
8. FA1.KF47 A cybersecurity transformation
programme, that will sustainably reduce
cybersecurity risk in the long term, has not
been planned, approved or resourced. Some
initial security improvement documents [166,167,168,169],
as outlined in key finding FA1.KF44, exist
but these do not articulate the scale of
necessary change or detail the plan for such
a transformation. Both a cyber transformation
plan and a framework to help achieve that plan
are required that will redesign how the HSE
manages and maintains its cyber risk within its
extensive technological estate (see medium-term
recommendation FA1.KR13 for further detail).
157 HSE IT Security Planning, UNDATED Last Modification recorded 15 September 2021
158 Cyber Security Risk Management, UNDATED Last Modification recorded 15 September 2021
159 CTO Document Security Improvement Programme Draft, 31 August 2021
160 OoCIO-07 Investment Plan 2020 -Cyber Security Draft, 1 June 2019
161 HSE IT Security Planning, UNDATED Last Modification recorded 15 September 2021
162 Cyber Security Risk Management, UNDATED Last Modification recorded 15 September 2021
163 CTO Document Security Improvement Programme Draft, 31 August 2021
164 OoCIO-07 Investment Plan 2020 -Cyber Security Draft, 1 June 2019
165 CTO Document Security Monitoring V1 HSE, 04 June 2021
166 HSE IT Security Planning, UNDATED Last Modification recorded 15 September 2021
167 Cyber Security Risk Management, UNDATED Last Modification recorded 15 September 2021
168 CTO Document Security Improvement Programme Draft, 31 August 2021
169 OoCIO-07 Investment Plan 2020 -Cyber Security Draft, 1 June 2019
58 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
9. FA1.KF48 The HSE still has a significant
amount of legacy IT that needs to be
10. FA1.KF49 Key artefacts created within the
response are not yet being centrally and
systematically collated. The HSE was able to
gather a significant amount of information in the
middle of a crisis about the applications that were
being used across the HSE, hospitals and CHOs.
In addition, design response processes were
created such as communication structures and
recovery tracking dashboards (for example the
decryption tracking trello board). These artefacts
will be invaluable in the event of a similar attack
in future. It is therefore critical that information is
now collated and appropriately managed going
forward.