3. OVERVIEW
LightNeuron is a piece of malware specifically designed to target Microsoft Exchange servers. It has two
facets: spying on emails and acting as a full-feature backdoor.
3.1 Impact
While rootkits and bootkits have an unmatched stealthiness in the malware domain, LightNeuron is uncom­
monly stealthy for “regular” malware. To our knowledge, leveraging a Microsoft Exchange Transport Agent
for persistence is something unique and never before seen. Moreover, in the few cases we studied, Light­
Neuron was running with SYSTEM privileges. It is typically hard to gain this level of privilege on a Microsoft
Exchange server, as it is one of the most critical assets in an organization. Thus, once compromised, it is likely
that it will stay undetected for months or years.
The Command and Control protocol is fully based on emails and uses steganography to store data in PDF
and JPG attachments. Given that, in the Microsoft Exchange architecture, the malware is installed at the
same level as anti-spam and other email security solutions, it allows the malware to bypass them easily.
Using a nearly undetectable Command and Control channel allows the malware to stay under the radar
for a long period.
During the course of our investigation, we noticed alongside LightNeuron the presence of several tools used
to control other machines on the local network. These tools include Remote Administration Software, RPC
based malware or .NET web shells targeting Outlook Web Access. By leveraging them, attackers are able to
control other machines on the local network using emails sent to the Exchange server. This strategy allows
avoiding typical, noisy methods such as an HTTP-based C&C protocol or connection via RDP from outside
the compromised network.
3.2 Chronology
We believe that LightNeuron development started before 2014 as the versions compiled in 2014, according
to the compilation timestamp, appear to be in a late development state. Even if the development occurred
several years ago, LightNeuron is still used in recent compromises. Figure 2 is a timeline of some important
events related to LightNeuron.