to help network defenders prioritize patching and mitigation efforts, impose cost, and make foreign adversary cyber actors less successful across the board.
• A quantitative increase in patching for our
customers

Impacts to adversary behaviors (i.e. changes in tools, tactics, and procedures)

• Qualitative assessments of the value-added to the cybersecurity community (based on
feedback received from our customers and observed via open source)
In October 2019, upon discovering that Russian actors were obfuscating their identity
by leveraging Iranian implants and infrastructure for cyber operations, NSA and the
UK’s National Cyber Security Centre partnered to release a first-ever, dual-seal advisory
highlighting this activity and providing indicators of compromise.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 6
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov
In January 2020, Microsoft released a patch for a critical cryptographic vulnerability
in Windows 10 that was discovered and disclosed by NSA. The vulnerability affected
millions of users around the world and, if it had been discovered by foreign adversaries,
could have been used to undermine cryptographic trust across vast numbers of networks.
In a significant departure from past practice, NSA accepted public recognition for this
discovery and disclosure. Prior to the patch’s release by Microsoft, NSA coordinated a
rapid patching strategy for key components within DoD, including U.S. Cyber Command.
Due to these efforts, DoD was able to rapidly patch the vulnerability in its enterprise
networks. NSA’s Cybersecurity Advisory, which was released concurrent with Microsoft’s
patch, has been downloaded approximately 2 million times.
In May 2020, to communicate technical guidance directly with network defenders, NSA
launched its new Twitter handle @NSAcyber. The launch of the Twitter handle was aligned
with the release of NSA’s CSA on a vulnerability in Exim Mail Transfer Agent. This CSA
warned of ongoing exploitation of a known vulnerability in Exim Mail Transfer Agent by a
Russian cyber actor, the Russian General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate’s (GRU) Main
Center for Special Technologies, publicly known as Sandworm.
This advisory was significant for the outcomes it generated. Immediately following the
CSA’s release, there was an uptick in patching of this vulnerability by NSA customers.
Additionally, multiple threat intelligence firms pivoted off the data to write substantive
publications, and a variety of information security researchers used the provided
indicators of compromise to uncover additional adversary