M border areas, and broader security and
diplomatic issues. Decoy documents attached to
spear phishing emails are frequently indicators of
intended targeting because threat actors generally
tailor these emails to entice their intended targets
—who typically work on related issues—to click on
the attachments and infect themselves.
APT30 LEVERAGES MAJOR POLITICAL
TRANSITION AS PHISHING LURE
CONTENT IN CAMPAIGN GEARED TO KEY
POLITICAL STAKEHOLDERS
In late summer 2014, FireEye detected an APT30
spear phishing campaign at one of our regional
customers. The decoy document topic related to
a significant political transition in Southeast Asia.
The phishing email, which contained a backdoor
compiled the day prior, was likely an attempt to gain
access to targets that would give APT30 actors
insight into the level of instability and pending
changes in the country’s political leadership.
Such information is typically a high priority for a
government’s intelligence collection efforts.
Figure 19:
APT30 decoy
document
on topics related
to China’s border
security
According to the spear phishing emails’ recipients
list, the email was sent to over thirty recipients
in the country’s Financial Services, Government
and Defense sectors. APT30 targeted both
professional and personal (Gmail, Hotmail) email
accounts. The email was crafted entirely in the
country’s language, and the message’s subject
translated to “foreign journalists’ reactions to
the political transition.” This topic would likely
be of interest to individuals in security roles,
leadership positions, diplomatic jobs, or public or
press-facing roles. The spear phishing email was
either sent from a compromised email account
of one of the country’s governmental agencies
or was convincingly spoofed to look as though it
originated from that agency.
REPEATED DECOY SUBJECTS ON INDIA-
CHINA MILITARY RELATIONS AND
CONTESTED REGIONS
APT30 appears to use decoy documents about
China’s relationship with India, particularly
their military relations, likely in an attempt to
compromise targets with information about this
bilateral relationship. APT30 leveraged the text of
a legitimate academic journal on China’s border
security challenges in one of its decoy documents.
23
SPECIAL REPORT APT30 and the Mechanics of a Long-Running Cyber Espionage Operation
Several decoy themes center on
Indian defense and military materiel
topics.
Similarly, several of APT30’s decoy themes have
centered on Indian defense and military materiel
topics. In particular, a number of spear phishing
subjects have related to Indian aircraft carrier
and oceanographic monitoring processes, which
probably indicates a specific interest in naval and
maritime themes around Indian military activity
and disputes in the South China Sea. The decoy
document depicted in Figure 20 correlates to the
actual building and launch of India’s first Indianbuilt aircraft carrier.
Decoy documents are not the only evidence
of APT30’s targeting of Indian organizations.
India-based users of VirusTotal have submitted
APT30 malware to the service, suggesting that
Indian researchers discovered APT30’s suspicious
activity at Indian organizations as well. FireEye
has also identified alerts from APT30 malware at
India-based customers including:


An Indian aerospace and defense company


An Indian telecommunications firm


Another recurring theme in APT30’s decoy
documents relates to regionally contested
territories, including Bhutan and Nepal. Nepal and
Bhutan are important buffer states in China-India
border conflicts and represent an opportunity to
assert regional military dominance in Asia.
24
SPECIAL REPORT APT30 and the Mechanics of a Long-Running Cyber Espionage Operation
Nepal is a key battleground for influence
between China and India, and serves a
theme in APT30 decoy documents.
The decoy document depicted in Figure 21
correlates to August 2013’s 21st Round of
Boundary Talks between Bhutan and China. This
text was taken verbatim from press release put
out by Bhutan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [27]
Nepal is also a key battleground for influence
between China and India and serves a theme in
APT30 decoy documents. Traditionally Nepal
has rested securely in India’s sphere of influence,
but more recently, China has become a more
influential player with large investments in
infrastructure projects, increased funding to the
military and police, and other traditional Chinese
influence efforts (for example, establishing
Confucius Institutes). Beyond the ongoing border
tensions, Nepal is also strategic to both India and
China for its significant water resources. The
decoy document below depicts a Nepal-related
APT30 phishing decoy document.
25
SPECIAL REPORT APT30 and the Mechanics of a Long-Running Cyber Espionage Operation
n addition to APT30’s Southeast Asia and
India focus, we’ve observed APT30 target