The man-on-the-side attack
03 4D 5D 44
C3 1E 0A
DA
A3 4A 86 A3
CC ED 67
38
…
Putting all the pieces together, WinDealer’s infrastructure is nothing short of extraordinary:
https://securelist.com/windealer-dealing-on-the-side/105946/ 4/8
6/6/22, 10:28 AM WinDealer dealing on the side | Securelist
It appears to be distributed via plain HTTP requests that normally return legitimate
executables.
It communicates with IP addresses selected randomly inside a specific AS.
It can interact with non-existent domain names.
It is very hard to believe that an attacker would be able to control the 48,000 IP addresses of the
aforementioned IP ranges, or even a significant portion of them. The only way to explain these
seemingly impossible network behaviors is by assuming the existence of a man-on-the-side
attacker who is able to intercept all network traffic and even modify it if needed.
Such capabilities are not unheard of: the QUANTUM program revealed in 2014 was the first
known instance. The general idea is that when the attacker sees a request for a specific resource on
the network, it tries to reply to the target faster than the legitimate server. If the attacker wins the
“race”, the target machine will use the attacker-supplied data instead of the normal data. This is
consistent with the scenario described earlier in this article, where the target receives an infected
executable instead of the normal one. Automatic updaters are prime targets for such attacks as they
perform frequent requests – it doesn’t matter if the attackers don’t win most races, as they can try
again until they succeed, guaranteeing that they will infect their targets eventually. This class of
attack is particularly devastating because there is nothing users can do to protect themselves, apart
from routing traffic through another network. This can be done with the use of a VPN, but these
may be illegal depending on the jurisdiction and would typically not be available to Chinese
speaking targets.
Confirming our assessment, we later discovered a downloader utility (MD5
4e07a477039b37790f7a8e976024eb66) that uses the same unique user-agent as WinDealer
samples we analyzed (“BBB”), tying it weakly to LuoYu.
A downloader utility and WinDealer of 2021 use the unique user-agent “BBB”
The downloader periodically retrieves and runs an executable from
hxxp://www.baidu[.]com/status/windowsupdatedmq.exe. This URL normally returns a 404 error
and we consider it extremely unlikely that the attackers have control over this domain.
Based on all the evidence laid out above, we speculate that the attackers may have the following
capabilities over AS4134:
https://securelist.com/windealer-dealing-on-the-side/105946/ 5/8
6/6/22, 10:28 AM WinDealer dealing on the side | Securelist
Intercepting all network traffic, which allows them to receive backdoor responses to random
IP addresses without having to deploy actual C2 servers.
Injecting arbitrary TCP and UDP packets on the network, a capability through which they
can send orders to WinDealer.
Full control over the DNS, meaning they can provide responses for non-existent domains.
Either QUANTUMINSERT capabilities or the ability to modify the contents of HTTP
packets on the fly, thanks to which they can achieve remote, zero-click malware installation
by abusing auto-update mechanisms. One noteworthy observation is that the attackers
specifically target plain HTTP sessions, indicating that they may not have the ability to
break or downgrade HTTPS.