TERRACOTTA VPN LEVERAGED FOR PHISHING AND ATTEMPTED EXPLOITATION OF A DEFENSE CONTRACTOR
RSA Research received a specific report from a large defense contractor concerning 27 different Terracotta VPN node IP addresses
that were used to send phishing emails (Figure 6) targeting users in their organization. The phishing emails were simple HTML
formatted emails with content pasted from legitimate online news articles. The HTML formatted emails were loaded with an
intelligence-gathering tool known as a “web bug [3] ” that was specifically tailored to the recipient.
3 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_bug
12
Figure 6. Redacted phishing email laden with web bug sent from Terracotta VPN node IP address
An image reference in the email pointed to a website controlled by the actors that spoofed a popular Webmail provider. The image
reference appeared to have been crafted so as to entice the target into logging into the phishing website with their legitimate
credentials (Figure 7), thereby sending the targets’ webmail credentials directly to the malicious actors. Typically APT actors use
the information they gather from web bugs and phishing to later perform highly targeted exploitation or intelligence collection on
specific users who have met their criteria.
Figure 7. Spoofed login page for major webmail provider, linked from phishing email
13
RSA Research investigated the domain infrastructure related to the phishing activity described above and enumerated related
domains, as shown partially redacted in Table 2.
The partial- and un-redacted domains below are representative of brands that are commonly spoofed for phishing purposes. All of these domains have
been reported and are obvious spoofs. The domains we have redacted involve specific government and defense sector targets. These have been
reported and the targets have been notified.  Further details can be made available to industry partners.
Domains directly related to defense contractor phishing from Terracotta VPN nodes
weblogin-yahoo.com
weblogin-vxxxxxx.net
linkedinmember.com
auth-vxxxxxx.com
weblogin-live.com
[10 related domains based on common hosting]
Table 2. Terracotta-originating phishing campaign related domains