Conclusion
8/18
The xHunt campaign continues as the actor installed a webshell we call BumbleBee on a
compromised Exchange server of a Kuwaiti organization, which we found hosted on an internal IIS
web server on the same network. We also discovered BumbleBee on two internal IIS web servers at
two other Kuwaiti organizations as well. While we know the actor used the file uploading
functionality of a web application to install BumbleBee onto internal IIS web servers, we are still
unsure if the actor installed BumbleBee on the compromised Exchange server by exploiting a
vulnerability or by moving laterally from another system on the network.
The actor used BumbleBee to run commands on the compromised servers at the three Kuwaiti
organizations, including commands to discover user accounts and other systems on the network, as
well as commands to move laterally to other systems on the network. Additionally, the actor created
SSH tunnels to access systems via RDP and to access internal web servers from external servers
controlled by the actor. The actor used the same username and password for the SSH tunnels that
we observed within the cheat sheet included in the Sakabota tool, which was developed and
exclusively used by the actor.
The external servers used by the actor for the SSH tunnels were seen in activity at two of the three
Kuwaiti organizations, which suggests this actor reuses infrastructure when interacting with
multiple target networks. These external servers also resolved to several related domains, suggesting
that they are not only used to establish SSH tunnels, but used more generally for infrastructure
across other portions of their operations.
From this analysis, we determined that the actor prefers to use VPNs provided by Private Internet
Access when interacting directly with the targeted networks to conceal their true location. The actor
would also switch VPN servers often while issuing commands on the webshell to make the activity
appear to originate in many different countries. The actors also used a VPN when logging into
compromised email accounts on the Exchange server of the Kuwaiti organization, in which they
specifically looked for helpdesk-related emails and emails generated by security alerts. The attempts
to conceal their location and the focus on viewing emails that might notify administrators of the
compromised network of the attacker’s presence may explain how the actor was able to maintain a
presence on the compromised network for many months.
Palo Alto Networks Next-Generation Firewall customers are protected from the attacks outlined in
this blog with the following security subscriptions:
Threat Prevention signatures “BumbleBee Webshell File Detection” and “BumbleBee Webshell
Command and Control Traffic Detection” detects BumbleBee webshell activity.
Actor’s related infrastructure has been categorized as malicious in URL Filtering and DNS
Security.