Conclusions
For the past seven years, a strong threat actor named Darkhotel, also known as
Tapaoux, has carried out a number of successful attacks against a wide range of
victims from around the world. It employs methods and techniques which go well
beyond typical cybercriminal behavior.
The Darkhotel crew’s skillset allows it to launch interesting cryptographical attacks, for instance factoring 512 bit RSA keys. Its use of 0-days is another indicator of a strong threat actor.
The targeting of top executives from various large companies around the world
during their stay at certain “Dark Hotels” is one of the most interesting aspects of
this operation. The exact method of targeting is still unknown - for instance, why
some people are targeted while others are not. The fact that most of the time the
victims are top executives indicates the attackers have knowledge of their victims
whereabouts, including name and place of stay. This paints a dark, dangerous
web in which unsuspecting travelers can easily fall. While the exact reason why
some hotels function as an attacker vector are unknown, certain suspicions exist, indicating possibly a much larger compromise. We are still investigating this
aspect of the operation and will publish more information in the future.
A further interesting trait is the deployment of multiple types of campaigns, both
targeted and botnet. This is becoming more and more common on the APT scene,
where targeted attacks are used to compromise high profile victims and botnet
style operations are used for massive surveillance or performing other tasks such
as launching DDoS attacks on hostile parties or simply upgrading victims to more
sophisticated espionage tools.
We expect the Darkhotel crew to continue their activities against DIB, Government and NGO sectors. The appendix released with this paper provides technical
indicators of compromise which should help victims identify the malicious traffic
and enable targets to protect themselves better against attack.
TLP: Green For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com