How FASTCash attacks work - Details
2/6
In order to permit their fraudulent withdrawals from ATMs, the attackers inject a malicious
Advanced Interactive eXecutive (AIX) executable into a running, legitimate process on the
switch application server of a financial transaction network, in this case a network handling
ATM transactions. The malicious executable contains logic to construct fraudulent ISO
8583 messages. ISO 8583 is the standard for financial transaction messaging. The
purpose of this executable has not been previously documented. It was previously believed
that the attackers used scripts to manipulate legitimate software on the server into
enabling the fraudulent activity.
However, analysis by Symantec has found that this executable is in fact malware, which we
have named Trojan.Fastcash. Trojan.Fastcash has two primary functions:

It monitors incoming messages and intercepts attacker-generated fraudulent

transaction requests to prevent them from reaching the switch application that
processes transactions.

It contains logic that generates one of three fraudulent responses to fraudulent

transaction requests.
Once installed on the server, Trojan.Fastcash will read all incoming network traffic,
scanning for incoming ISO 8583 request messages. It will read the Primary Account
Number (PAN) on all messages and, if it finds any containing a PAN number used by the
attackers, the malware will attempt to modify these messages. How the messages are
modified depends on each victim organization. It will then transmit a fake response
message approving fraudulent withdrawal requests. The result is that attempts to withdraw
money via an ATM by the Lazarus attackers will be approved.
Here is one example of the response logic that Trojan.Fastcash uses to generate fake
responses. This particular sample has logic to construct one of three fake responses based
on the incoming attacker request:
For Message Type Indicator == 200 (ATM Transaction) and Point of Service Entry
Mode starts with 90 (Magnetic Strip only):
If Processing Code starts with 3 (Balance Inquiry):
Response Code = 00 (Approved)
Otherwise, if the Primary Account Number is Blacklisted by Attackers:
Response Code = 55 (Invalid PIN)
All other Processing Codes (with non-blacklisted PANs):
Response Code = 00 (Approved)
In this case, the attackers appear to have built in a capability to selectively deny
transactions based on their own blacklist of account numbers. However, the capability was
not implemented in this sample, and the check for blacklisting always returns “False”.
3/6
Symantec has found several different variants of Trojan.Fastcash, each of which uses
different response logic. We believe that each variant is tailored for a particular transaction
processing network and thus has its own tailored response logic.
The PAN numbers used to carry out the FASTCash attacks relate to real accounts.
According to the US-CERT report, most accounts used to initiate the transactions had
minimal account activity or zero balances. How the attackers gain control of these
accounts remains unclear. It is possible the attackers are opening the accounts
themselves and making withdrawal requests with cards issued to those accounts. Another
possibility is the attackers are using stolen cards to perform the attacks.
In all reported FASTCash attacks to date, the attackers have compromised banking
application servers running unsupported versions of the AIX operating system, beyond the
end of their service pack support dates.