Tactical Intelligence Bulletin – TLP: WHITE
Targeting
Recently, we observed a number of new domain registrations by the Sofacy attackers, all of which are
closely related via shared WHOIS data and infrastructure. New domain registrations are usually
indicative of a new campaign, and so we were eager to find new samples of the malware which connected
to the infrastructure. The domain names chosen were almost identical to the legitimate domains of
several organisations, a common technique and, like carefully chosen decoy documents, often gives clues
as to the likely targets of the campaign. The new domain names mimicked organisations in the following
categories:
 International and European diplomatic institutions


 Popular providers of web services


 Military institutions, contractors and conferences


 Energy companies


 News organisations based out of the United States and Central Europe

In addition to new malware samples, we also found examples where the attackers were using the simple
technique of phishing for credentials. The usage of malware in targeted attacks to steal information of
value to attackers has been widely reported, however the simple technique of phishing for credentials,
whilst still relatively common in targeted attacks, is still more typically associated with criminal attackers
involved in day to day cyber-fraud.
The pages used for phishing typically used obfuscated code to redirect the user to another webpage:
In some pages the malicious redirect was disabled by the attackers, by placing additional JavaScript on
the page which would redirect users to a legitimate site preferentially.
Fake login pages were observed both for webmail and two factor-authentication platforms. In the second
case this would require the attackers to log in at the same time as affected victims, showing a level of
dedication to the cause. As well as the domains used being similar to those of the targeted, the pages were
also made to appear the same as their legitimate counterparts, making it difficult for end-users to tell they
were being duped.
For example the screenshot below shows the contents of a credential phishing website designed to mimic
the legitimate OWA site of a defence contractor. The attacker’s version is on the left, the real version is on
the right:
Cyber Threat Operations