Encounters with Java exploits con- tinued to decrease significantly in 1H16.
browsers to be digitally signed by default.
In September 2014, Microsoft published updates for
versions 8 through 11 of Internet Explorer to begin blocking out-
of-date ActiveX controls, including controls that host older
versions of the JRE in the browser. As explained in this section,
the most commonly encountered Java exploits all target
vulnerabilities that were addressed with security updates years
ago, but remain present in out-of-date Java installations. When
a webpage attempts to load one of the vulnerable versions of Java in
Internet Explorer with the update applied, the control is blocked by
default and the user is urged to update Java to a more secure version.
Figure 36. Internet Explorer blocks out-of-date ActiveX controls from running
         In January 2016, Oracle announced that it would be deprecating the

Java browser plugin in JDK 9, scheduled for release in 2017.
         Microsoft Edge, the newest Microsoft web browser and the default

browser in Windows 10, does not support Java or other ActiveX plugins,
which eliminates the possibility of Java exploits being delivered within
the browser. See “A break from the past, part 2: Saying goodbye to
ActiveX, VBScript, attachEvent…” (May 6, 2015) at the Microsoft Edge
Dev Blog at blogs.windows.com/msedgedev for more information.
       - [CVE-2012-1723, the most commonly encountered individual Java exploit in](http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2012-1723)

1H16, is a type-confusion vulnerability in the Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
that is exploited by tricking the JRE into treating one type of variable like
another type. Oracle confirmed the existence of the vulnerability in June
2012, and addressed it the same month with its June 2012 Critical Patch
Update. The vulnerability was observed being exploited in the wild
beginning in early July 2012, and has been used in a number of exploit kits.
58 EXPLOITS
For more information about this exploit, see the entry “The rise of a new
Java vulnerability - CVE-2012-1723” (August 1, 2012) in the Microsoft
Malware Protection Center (MMPC) blog at blogs.technet.com/mmpc.


CVE-2010-0840 is a JRE vulnerability that was first disclosed in March 2010
and addressed by Oracle with a security update the same month. The
vulnerability was previously exploited by some versions of the Blackhole
exploit kit (detected as JS/Blacole), which has been inactive in recent years.


CVE-2012-0507 allows an unsigned Java applet to gain
elevated permissions and potentially have unrestricted
access to a host system outside its sandbox environment.
The vulnerability is a logic error that allows attackers to
run code with the privileges of the current user, which
means that an attacker can use it to perform reliable
exploitation on other platforms that support the JRE,
including Apple Mac OS X, Linux, VMWare, and others.
Oracle released a security update in February 2012 to


address the issue.