Living off the land, thriving off the security industry's best tools
To automatically distribute ransomware to peer endpoints and servers, adversaries
leverage a trusted dual-use utility like PsExec from Microsoft Sysinternals. The
attacker crafts a script that lists the collected targeted machines and incorporates
them together with PsExec, a privileged domain account, and the ransomware.
This script successively copies and executes the ransomware onto peer machines.
This takes less than an hour to complete, depending on the number of machines
targeted. By the time the victim spots what’s going, on it is too late, as these
attacks typically happen in the middle of the night when IT staff is sleeping.
December 2019 5
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
Figure 2: Ransomware has a 30-plus year history as a form of malware
As an alternative to PsExec, active adversaries have also been seen leveraging a
logon and logoff script via a Group Policy Object (GPO) or abusing the Windows
Management Interface (WMI) to mass-distribute ransomware inside the network.
Some ransomware abuses Windows PowerShell to hoist in a PowerShell script from
the internet, which is set to automatically start the ransomware after several days.
This makes the attack appear to come out of nowhere. In this scenario, the actual
file encryption attack itself is performed by the trusted Windows POWERSHELL.
EXE process, making endpoint protection software believe a trusted application
is modifying the documents. To achieve the same goal, ransomware may inject
its malicious code into a trusted running process like SVCHOST.EXE or use the
Windows RUNDLL32.EXE application to encrypt documents from a trusted process.
This tactic may thwart some anti-ransomware solutions that do not monitor or
are configured to ignore encryption activity by default Windows applications.
Ransomware may also run from a NTFS Alternate Data Stream (ADS)
to hide from both victim users and endpoint protection software.
December 2019 6
Sophos 2020 Threat Report