Introduction, history
In the spring of 2012, following a Kaspersky Lab presentation on the unusual facts surrounding the Duqu
malware (http://www.kaspersky.com/about/press/major_malware_outbreaks/duqu), a security researcher
contacted us and mentioned that Duqu reminded him of another high-end malware incident. Although he
couldn’t share a sample, the researcher mentioned ‘Regin’, a type of malware attack that is now dreaded
by security administrators in many government agencies around the world.
For the past three years we have been tracking this most elusive malware all around the world. From time
to time samples would appear on various multi-scanner services, but they were all unrelated to each other,
cryptic in functionality, and lacking in context.
It is unknown exactly when the first samples of Regin appeared in the wild. Some of them have timestamps
dating back to 2003.
The victims of Regin fall into the following categories:


Telecom operators


Government institutions


Multinational political bodies


Financial institutions


Research institutions


Individuals involved in advanced mathematical/cryptographic research


So far, we’ve observed two main objectives of the attackers:


Intelligence gathering


Facilitating other types of attacks


While in most cases the attackers were focused on extracting sensitive information such as emails and other elec­
tronic documents, we have observed cases where the attackers compromised telecom operators to enable the
launch of additional sophisticated attacks. This is discussed in detail in the GSM attacks section, below.
Perhaps one of the most well-known victims of Regin was Jean Jacques Quisquater (https://en.wikipedia.org/
   wiki/Jean [Jacques_Quisquater), a well-known Belgian cryptographer. In February 2014, Quisquater announced](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean-Jacques_Quisquater)

he was the victim of a sophisticated cyber-intrusion incident. We were able to obtain samples from the Quisquater
case and confirm they belong to the Regin platform.
Another victim of Regin was a computer we call the ‘Magnet of Threats’. The computer belongs to a certain
research institution and, besides Regin, it has been attacked by Animal Farm, Itaduke, Mask/Careto, Turla,
and some other advanced threats that do not have public names, all co-existing happily on the same computer
at some point.