Crowdstrike Global Intelligence Team
Returned tasking is decrypted using the DES algorithm in CBC mode with a key derived from the MD5 hash
of the string HYF54&%9&jkMCXuiS (as used in the secondary beacon shown above). If this fails, the RAT will fall
back to decoding the data using an 8-byte XOR with a key derived from data returned from the HashData API
with the same key string. Output data produced by tasking instructions is encrypted in the same manner as it
was decrypted and sent back to the C2 server via HTTP POST request to a URI of the form /microsoft/errorpost/
default.aspx?ID=, where the ID value is a random number in decimal representation – as with the initial request
shown in Figure 4.
The set of commands supported by the RAT is somewhat limited, indicating that perhaps the RAT is intended
to be used as a second-stage tool, or as a failsafe means for the attackers to regain basic access to a
compromised system (which is consistent with its support for sleeping until a certain date/time). Some of the
supported commands are implemented using C++ classes derived from a base CCommand class:


CCommandAttribe – Retrieve metadata for files on disk, or set certain attributes such as creation/
modification timestamps.


CCommandCD – Change the working directory for the current C2 session.


CCommandCMD – Execute a command, with standard input/output/error Screenshot of Truecaller


redirected over the C2 channel. Database Shared by

CCommandNOP – List the current working directory. DEADEYE JACKAL on Their

Screenshot of Truecaller
Database Shared by
DEADEYE JACKAL on Their
Twitter Account (names
redacted)
However, other commands are not implemented in this way. These other commands contain functionality to:


Pause C2 activity for a random time interval.


Shutdown C2 activity and exit.

Provide a date and time before which beaconing will not resume, recorded in the file C:\RECYCLER\

restore.dat as noted above.
The use of C++ classes that inherit from a base class to carry out some of the tasking commands, along
with the use of concurrency features, indicates that the developers of the RAT put some thought into the
architecture and design of their tool, although the decision to implement some commands outside of the
class-based framework is curious, and may indicate multiple developers worked on the RAT (or a single
developer with shifting preferences for his coding style).
32