Introduction


Since 2015, Group-IB has been annually
estimating the size of the Russian video
piracy market.
The figures are as follows:
2015: $32 million
2016: $62 million
2017: $85 million
2018: $87 million
After major pirated content delivery
networks (CDNs) Moonwalk and HDGO
were shut down in 2019, the market
dropped to $63.5 million. It is now
rising again, however, due to a second
wave of CDNs.

The economic crisis caused by the pandemic, for which no country
was prepared, has laid bare a number of problems in today’s society. Both developing and developed countries have suffered and
continue to suffer enormous losses. The world’s industries have
been desperately trying to survive and are searching for new
strategies to ensure global stability. Analysts estimate that, over
the next two years, the coronavirus pandemic will strip the world
economy of some $5.5 trillion [1] . People are losing their health, their
lives, their loved ones, their jobs, their businesses… The situation
is becoming a global disaster whose consequences will be felt for
decades to come. To make matters worse, this is when cybercrime
rears its ugly head.
For more than 17 years, Group-IB has been researching the tactics,
tools, and monetization schemes used by various cybercriminal
groups and individuals whose overall damage to governments
worldwide amounts to billions of dollars. We are acutely aware
of the cyclic nature of this phenomenon. For cybercriminals, any
crisis is a time of prosperity. While for most people financial instability casts aside anything other than survival, criminals raise their
profits by taking vast sums of money out of people’s pockets and
economies. One shadow economy channel is online piracy.
The fight against this disease within the media industry has been
ongoing for some 20 years, but it is only recently that the scale
of the piracy business has escalated to such a colossal extent.
Russian-speaking cybercriminal conglomerates are no longer content with income that comes solely from video content consumers in Russia and other post-Soviet countries. They have started
branching out into international markets, mainly in developing
countries. This gives them opportunities to increase the capitalization of their shadow businesses manifold.
The US media industry — the largest in the world — is also suffering losses because of piracy. The Global Innovation Policy Center
of the US Chamber of Commerce estimates that online piracy
costs the US economy up to $29.2 billion [2] .
It has become obvious that pirate resources [3] have adapted
to pressure from copyright holders. Pirate infrastructures are
resilient to new technologies and certain legal initiatives. Pirates’
main investors are still illegal bookmakers, casinos, and alcohol
suppliers, or in other words: the entire black market, which sponsors camrip groups [4], translators, and IT infrastructures for pirated
content.
1  Bloomberg citing JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysis
2  https://www.theglobalipcenter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Digital-Video-Piracy.pdf
3  Hereinafter, in this report the pirate resources are defined as resources that had faced claims
of copyright holders over copyright infringements, as well as resources included in the lists
of violators of exclusive rights, compiled by competent authorities of different countries.
4  Pirate groups that specialize in recording the on-screen projections of movies (most often
fiction film premiers) and their editing for the purposes of publishing them online.

Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries

© Group−IB
Introduction 4
The shadow economy is not alone to facilitate piracy, however.
The industry has capacities to host and stream videos that are
often bought by pirate platforms from legal hosting services with
impunity. Pirate websites embed video players belonging to one
or several CDNs and monetize the content by showing ads. Users
can freely visit pirate websites, mainly through search engines
or social media. Meanwhile, pirates have been making themselves
increasingly richer by using processing services of banks, which
inadvertently act as accomplices.
Eliminating a single component of the pirate Hydra will not kill it.
It will simply regenerate. The war on it must be waged on all fronts.
This is the only way to cure cyberspace, develop immunity to piracy,
not just in Russia but in international markets too, and stop its outbreaks as soon as possible.
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Objectives 5