2.4. Format of the (encrypted) configuration file
Under the encryption layer (which is identical in the new and old samples as described in the
previous section), the configuration file format of the new Duqu 2.0 samples is very similar to
the old Duqu config file format. For an overview, see Figure 5 below.
Figure 5 – File format found in Duqu (first diagram) and Duqu 2.0 (second diagram)
(Rectangles always denote little endian 4 byte integers if not stated otherwise)
The format is designed to hold key-value pairs . The keys are always 4-byte long, and the
values can be of arbitrary size. We believe that the keys are timestamps and the values are
configuration entries, although the file format could hold any other similarly structured
information (e.g. configurations).
The old file format begins with 4 bytes whose value is undefined. In the serialization process,
it is read from an uninitialized buffer, and it is ignored in the deserialization process. The new
file format does not have such a beginning byte sequence.
The main part of the file format is surrounded by 4 signature bytes at the beginning and at the
end. The byte sequence in the old Duqu file format is 0x839172FF, and in the new Duqu 2.0
version, it is 0x7749CB4D.
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 24
In both cases, the next integer indicates the number of entries, followed by the entries
themselves.
Each entry begins with a 4-byte key, and then the value. In the new format, the value always
begins with 13 bytes (that can be logically divided into four 4 byte integers and a 1 byte value:
4+4+1+4+4), but in the old format, this is missing. Furthermore, the value contains a variable
size part in both formats. This is a length prefixed buffer that can hold arbitrary data.
In essence, the only difference between the Duqu and the Duqu 2.0 config file formats is the
presence of the undefined 4 bytes at the beginning of the file in the old version, and the
presence of the 13 additional value bytes in the new version.
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 25