Southeast University ( 东南大学 )
Connections to the Security Services
Professor Song Yubo (宋宇波) and Beijing TopSec, a company
known to provide cybersecurity services to the PLA and MSS,
hosted a hacking competition in early 2014 for Southeast
University students. [17] Unlike normal capture-the-flag competitions
where participants hack other teams for points, Professor Song
offered students a real-world opportunity to earn points and gain
prestige by attempting to access the network of a U.S. DoD
contractor, VAE, Inc. [18]
In preparing the computer infrastructure for the hacking
competition, Professor Song accidentally left a trail of indicators
connecting him, the competition, and the VAE operation. Song set
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 9
up websites meant to fool VAE employees into giving up their
credentials in the days leading up to the competition; VAE
confirmed spearphishing attempts at the same time as the
competition. [19] Not only did the timing of the websites align with
the competition, but Song used the same registration company and
naming conventions to create both the competition registration
website and the websites used for the hacking operation. Such
overlapping procedures could be coincidental; one registration
company can serve many clients. But, Song also made an
operational security error when compiling his malware, by
accidentally programming his malware to call back to the same IP
address he used to register the competition’s website, connecting
him, the competition, and the malicious websites. [20]
Months after the attempted attacks on VAE, Inc., the same
malware from the competition was found on a website targeting
Anthem Insurance employees. [21] The 2019 DOJ indictment of
Chinese hackers for the Anthem Insurance hacks did not name
Song, however. The relative exclusivity of the malware and its
connection to Deep Panda, the Crowdstrike designation for a
Chinese state-sponsored hacking team, suggests that Song and
the team that hacked Anthem Insurance had access to the same
tools—either through sharing or centralized distribution. [22]
Moreover, Song registered the malicious VAE websites using the
name of a Marvel comic book character—the same theme used to
register infrastructure for the hack of the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management, another major Chinese operation. [23]
Aside from Song Yubo, Southeast University has a strong
institutional relationship with China’s information warfare
programs. A 2012 report prepared for the U.S.-China Economic
and Security Review Commission by Northrop Grumman
determined that Southeast University faculty—including Song [24] —
received regular funding from five programs for “the modernization
of state secrecy, the technical professionalization of the PLA, and
the continuing development of information conflict capabilities.” [25]
As of 2012, funds from these five programs—the 863 National
High Technology Research and Development Program (国家高技术
研究发展计划), the 973 National Key Basic Research Program (国家
高技术研究发展计划), the National 242 Information Security
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 10
Program (国家 242 信息安全计划项目), Ministry of State Security
115 Program (国家安全部 115), and the National S219 Information
Security Application Demonstration Project (国家 S219 信息安全应
用示范工程)—were selectively distributed to a small group of
universities; it is unclear if these programs are still disbursing
funds. Only two other universities, Harbin University and Zhejiang
University, received funding from all five information warfare
projects as of 2012—both are tied to APTs and covered in this
report.
Southeast University continues to build upon its relationship with
the security services in the information domain. A university
webpage touts Southeast University partnering with the PLA
Strategic Support Force to establish the Purple Mountain Internet
Communications and Security Research Lab (网络通信与安全紫金
山实验室), which opened in 2018. [26] PLA SSF researchers and
Southeast University faculty at the lab work together on “important
strategic requirements”, computer operating systems, and
interdisciplinary cybersecurity research. [27] In the same year, the
university established a “security self-investigation and self
correction working group” for the cybersecurity academy’s
“laboratory and important venues”—perhaps to guard against
insider threats to research. [28] Other engagements revolve around
hands-on learning and job placement. Southeast University
connects students to the security services via job postings and
research positions. One post-doctoral position with the MSS 13 [th]
division works on “APT attack detection, and vulnerability
discovery and exploitation.” [29] A web page for prospective students
highlights that graduates often go on to work for the MSS, among
other possible careers. [30]
Research on AI/ML + Cybersecurity
Professor Song, the academic who facilitated the VAE, Inc. hacking
competition, is now researching how to use machine learning for
anomaly detection—a technique that looks for unusual patterns of
network behavior. [31 ] Song is just one of many Southeast University
professors who has accepted funding from any of the three
secretive funding programs for information security research. Dr.
Jiang Rui (蒋睿), a three-time recipient of MSS 115 Program (国家
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 11
安全部 115) funding, is currently researching data protection
technology for distributed machine learning systems on behalf of
the Ministry of Public Security. [32] Other professors also received
MSS 115 Program (国家安全部 115) or National 242 Information
Security Program (国家 242 信息安全计划项目), but do not conduct
ML-related cybersecurity research.
Another group of Southeast University faculty also research ML
and cybersecurity, but do not appear to receive government
funding for their research. Li Tao (李涛) focuses on smartphone
security and vulnerabilities, and claims to research AI applications
for cybersecurity, but has only listed one publication related to AI. [33]
Qin Zhongyuan (秦中元) researches AI for malware classification
and attack detection systems—both applications help defenders
fortify networks. [34] Another professor, Yang Wang (杨望), invites
student applicants to assist with his research on cyber threat
intelligence, cyberattack attribution technologies, and security
challenges for AI systems. [35] According to Yang’s webpage,
applicants for research positions should be familiar with machine
learning, cybersecurity posture awareness technology, and threat
intelligence modeling and analysis. [36] The requisite skills for
applicants and declared direction for the research project—
automated cybersecurity response (自动化安全响应)—suggests a
focus on ML-based anomaly detection and threat attribution
technologies.