Oil/Gas Inclusive or Specific Campaigns
‘Countries affect’ lists only countries where oil and gas companies were compromised.
Campaign: NightDragon Publisher: McAfee
Synopsis: The NightDragon report released by McAfee was somewhat of a seminal event in Published: Feb 10,
2011
that it was the first well known release of a fairly detailed APT analysis and technical attribu­
tion. The attacks conglomerated in NightDragon were nearly all conducted against unspecified Earliest Date: “[At­
“global oil, energy, and petrochemical companies.” The attacks followed a methodical series of tacks have been ongo­
steps:

using SQL-injection to obtain access to an extranet server, or using spear-phishing

against “mobile worker laptops” and “compromising corporate VPN accounts” to ob­
tain access to the company intranet

uploading common hash dumping tools & password cracking tools harvest Active

Directory credentials to gain access to sensitive desktops & servers


Access sensitive documents


Upload RAT malware to exfiltrate sensitive data


Move laterally


McAfee was also able to identify much of the generic malware used, and communications
techniques. They also suggested that the attackers worked between 9:00am and 5:00pm Bei­
jing time during weekdays, and that most traffic was originating from the Shandong Province
of China.
Purpose: Exfiltration of “competitive proprietary operations and project-financing information
with regard to oil and gas field bids and operations” & collection of data from SCADA Systems
Entry Method: Social Engineering, Spear Phishing, SQL-injection
Countries with Companies Affected: U.S., Taiwan, Kazakhstan, Greece
Published: Feb 10,
2011
Earliest Date: “[At­
tacks have been ongo­
ing for] at least two
years, and likely as
many as four”
Circa 2007-2009
Campaign: Elderwood Publisher: Symantec
Synopsis: Symantec observed a group it refers to as the Elderwood gang operating a con­ Published: Sept 06,
certed campaign against a variety of industries including an undisclosed oil and gas company. 2012
Symantec also asserts that these are the same hackers who operated in the “Aurora” cam­ Earliest Date: Decem­
paign against Google in 2009. This campaign is unique to some degree in that it used a high ber 2009
number of zero day exploits in Adobe Flash and Microsoft’s Internet Explorer. While it appears
that the attackers used spear-phishing (via email), their primary technique was the use of a
“watering-hole” attack whereby they attack websites known to be frequented by the target
using techniques such as SQL injection, and upload malicious files to these website. The target
then visits the site and gets infected. This is interesting because the target does not have any
indication that it has been compromised, but the number of overall infections goes up because
of untargeted victims which also visit the site. This attack requires the attackers to find security
vulnerability in the desired website after selection, requiring more technical skill than some of
the other campaigns initially exhibit. Symantec believes that the exploits were packed with a
Trojan and Command & Control (C2) server address using a platform that gives the group its
name: “Elderwood.”
Purpose: “the wholesale gathering of intelligence and intellectual property”
Entry Method: Watering-Hole attacks, Spear Phishing
Undisclosed
Countries with Companies Affected:
10
Campaign: ShadyRAT Publisher: McAfee
Synopsis: This report released by McAfee discusses a RAT they claim to be incredibly prolific, Published: August 02,
2011
infecting a variety of industries across multiple countries. The report itself is very sparse on any
technical details or evidence, largely lacking substance. It provides a list of victims by industry Earliest Date: July
and their country of origin. It also provides a detailed timeline for the attacks. 2006
Interestingly, Eugene Kaspersky heavily criticized the report for being alarmist and skewed,
stating that many of the conclusions were presumptive.
Purpose: Exfiltration of “a historically unprecedented transfer of wealth—closely guarded
national secrets (including those from classified government networks), source code, bug
databases, email archives, negotiation plans and exploration details for new oil and gas field
auctions, document stores, legal contracts, supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
configurations, design schematics, and much more”
Entry Method: Spear Phishing
U.S.
Countries with Companies Affected:
Campaign: Mirage Publishe r: Dell Se­
cureWorks
Synopsis: Dell SecureWorks gives a fairly good collection of technical details about the cam­ Published: Sep 18
paign they’ve dubbed “Mirage” for the string used to connect to the C2 server by the Remote 2012
Access Trojan, but largely they focused on studying the tool, not monitoring the APT activity. Earliest Date: April
Some points of note are the use of HTRAN (a relay that Dell’s Cyber Threat Unit asserts was 2012
developed by the Honker Union of China, or HUC) for relaying, and registry of a few domains
to an email address (dnsjack@yahoo.com) and IP ranges in China.
Purpose: Theft of “intellectual property and company secrets”
Entry Method: Social Engineering, Spear Phishing, SQL-injection of web servers
Countries with Companies Affected: Philippines, Canada
11
Campaign: Red October Publisher: Kaspersky
Synopsis: Red October is a sophisticated espionage network very much unlike other attacks Published: Jan 14,
2013
which had been reported. While for the most part, the targets were diplomatic, there were
several instances where Kaspersky noted that oil and gas industries had been targeted. The Earliest Date: May
attack used domains registered to Russian email addresses, and IP ranges identified were ser­ 2007
viced by largely German and Russian ISPs, however Kaspersky believes that the three “mother­
ship” C2 servers identified are actually themselves proxies for an as yet unidentified C2 server
which could then be operating nearly anywhere. A salient point is that Red October made
use of exploit code that was “created by other attackers and employed during different cyber
attacks. The attackers left the imported exploit code untouched, perhaps to harden the identi­
fication process.” Additionally, Red October is somewhat unique amongst attacks that targeted
oil and gas in that it is capable of stealing information from a variety of embedded devices
such as phone and routers.
Purpose: “gather intelligence from the compromised organizations”
Entry Method: Social Engineering, Spear Phishing, SQL-injection of web servers
Countries with Companies Affected: Azerbaijan, Belarus, Turkmenistan, UAE
Campaign: APT1 Publisher: Mandiant
Synopsis: The APT1 Report is perhaps the most detailed report to date. They also minced no Published: Feb 19 [, ]
words, directly accusing China as a state actor of engaging in Cyber Espionage. Researchers 2013
at Mandiant tracked back activities of an APT group they referred to as APT1 to the Chinese Earliest Date: 2004PLA Unit 61398 with relatively solid evidence. They even went so far as to report the building 2006
which they believed APT1 was operating out of, and unmask three operators – UglyGorilla,
DOTA, and SuperHard – giving possible real names, online personas and other identifying infor­
mation about them. APT1 operated over half a decade at least, stealing “hundreds of terabytes
of data from at least 141 organizations,” often conducting such operations in parallel. The
attackers maintain access to a given network for nearly a year on average. The attackers oper­
ated during the 9:00am to 5:00pm Beijing Time and thy followed a fairly strict methodology of
attack, similar to the one noted in the NightDragon report:


Initial reconnaissance


Initial compromise of a system, largely though spear phishing


Establishing a foothold in the network through Trojan dropping to a C2 server


Escalating privileges through credential harvesting


Internal reconnaissance of the network and


While Mandiant generically refers to energy companies, one of the trojaned files they note
was used in the spearfishing attack bears the name “Oil-Field-Services-Analysis-And-Outlook.
zip” which really ties. Mandiant notes that APT1 is also referred to as the Comment Group, a
name given for the communications method used by their RATs which would set attributes in
web pages as a means of C2.
Purpose: Exfiltration of “competitive proprietary operations and project-financing information
with regard to oil and gas field bids and operations”
Entry Method: Spear Phishing
Undisclosed
Countries with Companies Affected:
12
Campaign: Byzantine Candor Publisher: Bloomberg
Synopsis: An exposé run by Bloomberg in 2012 chronicled the undertakings of a security Published: July 26,
2012
research coalition which decided to track one of the largest Cyber Espionage groups operating
out of China. Bloomberg claims that US Intelligence had been keeping tabs on the group for Earliest Date: 2002
years, which they referred to as Byzantine Candor. In the same breath, Bloomberg notes that
the group is often referred to as the “Comment Group.” Bloomberg journalist Chloe Whiteaker
also published a short but technical article that detailed some of the Comment Groups activi­
ties and tools. The report included an infographic that identified oil and gas victims of the com­
ment group.
Purpose: “the biggest vacuuming up of U.S. proprietary data … ever seen”
Entry Method: Social Engineering, Spear Phishing
Countries with Companies Affected: U.S., United Kingdom