Downloader
One of the more interesting stages of the attack is the downloader System32Batch94ver1.exe (B4136B21B9E95FD1FA9C52BD897F4D2F). The .NET
downloader is signed by a non-valid Notepad++ certificate.
2/13
The downloader is encrypted by a known obfuscation framework (ConfuserEx) and further
obfuscated by a custom algorithm that can transform strings representing binary number
patterns to readable strings and byte arrays. The malware also has the functionality of
downloading additional stages from paste.ee & bit.ly under certain conditions.
ConfuserEx encrypted binary :
Most of the ConfuserEx unpackers didn’t fully work on this sample out of the box; we
needed to modify one of the unpackers. Following a successful control flow repair,
decryption of constants, strings and the de-obfuscation of the names we identified a
3/13
readable .NET library.
As noted previous, we needed to apply some of the decoding algorithms implemented
within the binary in order to deobfuscate the next stage binary patterns (similar patterns
are downloaded from hxxps://paste[.]ee/r/O53RV ). The identified strings revealed the
persistency methods of the binary, privilege escalation techniques used to bypass UAC,
and next stage artifacts embedded. Some of these strings are included in Table 1 below:
4/13
Although the original string table includes much more information, we will focus on the
strings included in the table above.
The eventvwr.exe, mmc and mscfile registry hijack clearly indicate a known UAC bypass
technique utilized by malware over the last 2 years – hijacking the mscfile registry key will
cause the event viewer to execute the given process with highest privileges. The vmtoolsd
and the Sandboxie strings indicate known anti-VM techniques. The VBScript code
templates, which are compiled by the .NET binary and the task schedule procedures, are
indicators for persistency and disconnection of the attack chain (as in the scenario we are
analyzing).
The last string was the only one that is not self-explainable and looked unique. This
prompted us to use it as the name for the threat actor.
While hunting for additional strings, we identified an interesting method that is responsible
for the AES decryption of one of the encrypted resources:
5/13
The function iterates over its four resources until it finds a resource stream that starts with
the leet cookie (1337). It then extracts the key and the initialization vector for a successful
AES decryption of the resource.
Decryption of the “ QFwMhceaY.Resources” resource reveals an additional set of URLs,
filename extensions and .NET target version:
6/13
Again, the actual string table contains more information and we have included only the
most relevant.
The first string is the URL path for the bit.ly (one of the leading URL shorteners). This path
hosts a redirector to the next stage malware (Orcus RAT embedded inside mp4 video file).
The second string is an executable name, which is later concatenated with the .exe
extension and used to replace the Name.exe template within the VB script shown in Table
1.
hxxps://paste[.]ee/r/bOZW3 contains another encrypted Assembly executable that is later
fetched from the internet (exhibits the same binary patterns as seen inside downloader
binary). This is described below.
The binary pattern is decrypted into a byte array (same way as previous strings), then it is
XOR’d with multiple embedded characters and transformed into a new embedded
assembly. Under certain conditions our downloader will execute this Assembly by invoking
its Method.
7/13
The decrypted assembly is minimally obfuscated; its long constant and function names
can be easily de-obfuscated using a basic de4dot. Looking deeper inside the assembly, we
identified process hollowing functionality that is used to hide additional executable code
within new process.
8/13
AES is applied here as well on internal byte array and the C.resources artifacts to be used
as parameters to the hollowing process (hollowing cmd).