Introduction
Executive Summary
During June-August of 2020, ClearSky’s team had investigated an offensive campaign attributed with
high probability to North Korea, which we call “Dream Job”. This campaign has been active since the
beginning of the year and it succeeded, in our assessment, to infect several dozens of companies and
organizations in Israel and globally. Its main targets include defense, governmental companies, and
specific employees of those companies. Throughout the campaign, the North Korean “Lazarus” group
(aka HIDDEN COBRA) succeeded in manipulating the targets with a “dream job” offering, which was
sent to the employees of said targets. The “dream job” is supposedly sent on behalf of some of the
most prominent defense and aerospace companies in the US, including Boeing, McDonnell Douglas,
and BAE. The infection and infiltration of target systems had been carried out through a widespread
and sophisticated social engineering campaign, which included: reconnaissance, creation of fictitious
LinkedIn profiles, sending emails to the targets’ personal addresses, and conducting a continuous
dialogue with the target – directly on the phone, and over WhatsApp. Upon infection, the attackers
collected intelligence regarding the company’s activity, and also its financial affairs, probably in order
to try and steal some money from it. The double scenario of espionage and money theft is unique to
North Korea, which operates intelligence units that steal both information and money for their
country.
In recent months, two parallel investigations, by ESET and McAfee, have been published, presenting
attacks by the group against similar targets in other regions of the world. These publications contain
several overlaps with the attack scenarios that we present in this report. In this report, we explain how
the attack was conducted – with LinkedIn as the main attack and manipulation platform – and reveal
the main infection scenarios of “Dream Job”, including social engineering tactics and the malware
used by the attackers. We assess this to be this year’s main offensive campaign by the Lazarus group,
and it embodies the sum of the group’s accumulative knowledge on infiltration to companies and
organizations around the globe. In our estimation, the group operates dozens of researchers and
intelligence personnel to maintain the campaign globally .
In 2019, we have revealed evidence of Lazarus’ attack in Israel, whereas the North Korean espionage
group had attempted to infiltrate the network of an Israeli defense company, and since this attack we
have been monitoring the group’s activity in Israel. In recent months, we have succeeded in identifying
new indications of the group’s activity in Israel. This report summarizes the investigation we have
conducted, with the help of our customers, and though which we have revealed and analyzed several
attacks conducted by the group. In the report we present the campaign’s attack scenarios, which
include sending a bait to download a file, supposedly containing details of a “dream job” in well-known
organizations, mainly in the aerospace sector.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
4 | P a g e
This report’s main findings include:

Social engineering chapter, which presents the stages to targets’ infection and the social

engineering tactics used to manipulate it.

Offensive tools’ analysis chapter, which surveys the three infection scenarios in this campaign:

o Infection through a malicious PDF file in an open-source PDF reader, which was
altered to fit the group’s needs. This is the first time this scenario is revealed publicly.
o Infection through a Dotm file, which is downloaded from a breached server, takes the
place of the original file, and runs a malicious macro on the target
o Infection through a Doc file containing a malicious macro.
Lazarus / Hidden Cobra – a North Korean APT group
The Lazarus group, also tracked as APT37 and HIDDEN COBRA, and two affiliated sub-groups
Bluenoroff and Andariel [1], are North Korean espionage groups which gained notoriety for the first time
in 2014, following the Sony breach. That breach was an act of revenge to produce a comedy movie,
“The Interview”, which was seen by Pyongyang as a threat and humiliation for its leader [2] . As a result,
most of Sony’s IT infrastructure has been deleted, and the company’s activities were out of order for
several months. In 2017, the group had conducted one of the most significant ransomware attacks in
history; the attack, named WannaCry, halted the work of dozens of companies around the world, and
caused billions of dollars in direct and indirect damages. The attack placed North Korea as a prominent
threat in cyberspace [3] .
However, Lazarus’ main activity lies in the financial domain. The group’s activity appears to be a part
of North Korean government’s effort to circumvent the long-standing sanctions placed mainly by the
United States and the United Nations. Indeed, according to one of the UN’s reports from August 2019,
the group succeeded in stealing more than 2 billion dollars to finance Pyongyang’s nuclear program [4] .
The group stands behind several significant cyber heist attempts, while the most well-known is the
attack on the central Bangladeshi bank, resulting in theft of 81 million dollars [5] . Originally, the group
tried to steal a sum as high as 950 million, but the attack was hamstringed by a human error of the
attackers. Another attack, which was tied to Lazarus and is particularly interesting in the context of this
report, took place in 2019 against Redbanc [6], a company that connects the clearing infrastructure of
Chile’s banks. One of the attack’s characteristics, which was not seen in Lazarus’ attacks until then, was
1 attack.mitre.org/groups/G0032/
2 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Pictures_hack
3 38north.org/2020/02/skleineahlbrandt022820/
4 reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-cyber-un/north-korea-took-2-billion-in-cyberattacks-to-fund-weaponsprogram-u-n-report-idUSKCN1UV1ZX
5 reuters.com/article/us-cyber-heist-bangladesh-northkorea/cyber-security-firm-more-evidence-north-korealinked-to-bangladesh-heist-idUSKBN1752I4
6 zdnet.com/article/north-korean-hackers-infiltrate-chiles-atm-network-after-skype-job-interview/

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
5 | P a g e
a direct contact with the target . The attackers had impersonated HR hiring personnel and conducted
interviews, also in Spanish, with the victims, mostly on Skype. Maintaining direct contact, beyond
sending phishing emails, is relatively rare in nation-state espionage groups (APTs); however, as it will
be shown in this report, Lazarus have adopted this tactic to ensure the success of their attacks.
In 2019, the group seemed to have shifted its focus from classical financial institutions to
cryptocurrency exchanges and development of offensive tools for Mac and Linux operational systems,
in addition to the known tools for Windows. The group’s most widespread attack scenario has been
creation of an internet page for a front company which deals, supposedly, with cryptocurrency trading.
At that page, the victim could download a trading app, which was indeed installed on the victim’s
computer, but alongside it was also installed a tool that collected information on the victim. Kaspersky
called the campaign “AppleJeus” [7] .
The group’s variety of tools and its determination attracted the attention of American intelligence and
law enforcement agencies, manifested in sanctions [8] (some of which were already in effect because of
the group’s affiliation with North Korea) and publication of tools related to the group [9] . Lazarus is one
of the groups, which the US focused on specifically, as part of its Cyber Command and the Department
of Homeland Security’s effort to hamstring offensive cyber infrastructures of rival countries.
Previous research
Lazarus’ attack against an Israeli defense company in 2019
One of the group’s first targeted attacks, identified by us in March 2019 and tied to it based on similarity
in technical details, targeted an Israeli security company. During the campaign, an email has been sent,
in flawed Hebrew, to one of the company’s employees. The sender’s address was from within the
company, meaning the attacker had already gained access to one internal email address at least. To
the email was attached a WinRAR archive, vulnerable to the CVE-2018-20250 [10] vulnerability, which ran
a malicious file in parallel to the archive’s opening.
7 securelist.com/operation-applejeus/87553/
securelist.com/operation-applejeus-sequel/95596/
8 home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm924
9 us-cert.cisa.gov/northkorea
10 nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-20250

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
6 | P a g e
The malicious email in Hebrew
The malicious executable, run in parallel to the archive file, is a small and basic backdoor, which
collects information on the infected computer, apparently for value assessment before further
infection, and reports to several hardcoded command-and-control (C2) servers. The tool uses a forged
User-Agent of the following form:
Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 7.0; Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; Trident/7.0; .NET CLR 2.0.50727;
SLCC2; .NET CLR 3.5.30729; .NET CLR 3.0.30729; Media Center PC 6.0; .NET4.0C; .NET4.0E)
A code check performed with Intezer Analyzer revealed some similarity between the source code of the
malware that we have found, and known Lazarus samples, specifically those identified in another
campaign, from 2018. The campaign analyzed and named “Operation Sharpshooter” [11] by McAfee, had
targeted 87 organizations in 24 countries in the defense, communications, and energy (also nuclear)
sectors. That campaign’s scenario was different from the one we have found, but code similarity and
the connection to a campaign with similar targets strengthened the connection to Lazarus.
Operation In(ter)ception: ESET’s research on Lazarus’ attacks published in June 2020
In June 2020, ESET has published a research [12] on the group’s campaign, which attacked defense and
aerospace companies in Europe and the Middle East, between September and December 2019. The
campaign, which was named “In(ter)ception” after one of the malicious files downloaded by it, made
wide use of social engineering and relied on a modular malware to collect reconnaissance on target
networks. We present the main findings of the ESET report, because it served as a basis for our research
and because it depicts one of the scenarios that we have identified in Israel as well.
According to ESET, the attackers made initial contact with the targets through LinkedIn. The attackers
created profiles impersonating HR recruiters from international companies in the defense and
aerospace sectors. The copycat profiles sent job offers to the targets, and if those showed interest, a
11 mcafee.com/enterprise/en-us/assets/reports/rp-operation-sharpshooter.pdf
12 welivesecurity.com/2020/06/17/operation-interception-aerospace-military-companies-cyberspies/

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
7 | P a g e
password-protected archive was sent directly or through OneDrive. Upon verifying the activation of the
file (the target asked, “what is the password?”), the copycat profiles were deleted. In the archive was a
LNK file, which runs several commands in the command line: first, a remote PDF is opened and
presented to the target, for distraction; second, a new folder is created, to which a WMI command line
file is copied under a different name; finally, a scheduled task is created, in order to ensure initial
persistence on the infected computer.
Upon gaining initial access and collecting basic information on target computer – mostly network
mapping through Active Directory querying – the attack continues. Through the scheduled task, an XSL
script is downloaded from an attacker-controlled server; this script downloads the data needed to
create and load the downloader, decodes it from base64 with certutil and loads the resulting malicious
DLL. The DLL, which is the downloader for the main tool, downloads the tool’s source code from the
C2 server and loads it in memory. Because each downloader contains the unique key required to
decrypt the main tool, it is possible that there are several scenarios with potentially different keys and
tools (ClearSky research indeed found additional scenarios).
The main tool, a DLL, can fingerprint the target computer, and communicate and work with the
configuration file and the modules that are downloaded from the C2 server and add more capabilities
to the tool. The tool can report the list of existent modules back to the operator, probably to allow
capability assessment. Each module can contain up to 4 functions, while several modules can be active
at the same time. Also, all the tool’s capabilities are initiated as classes during the bootstrapping phase,
therefore the modules activate capabilities by using the corresponding classes. Finally, the collected
information is packed in a RAR archive and uploaded to Dropbox.
Although the main goal of the campaign appears to be espionage, the attackers were seen exploiting
the access and the information on the infected computers to conduct business email compromise
(BEC) fraud. The attackers identified on infected computers information about some invoices to pay,
created domains and email addresses to resemble the infected organization, and sent messages,
demanding to pay the invoices to the new addresses. Although this scam did not work, this
combination of information and money theft is rare and characterizes the North Koreans.
Operation North Star: McAfee’s research on Lazarus’ attacks published in July 2020
In July 2020, another research [13] has been published, by McAfee, which presents another attack
scenario of the “Dream Job” campaign. Although McAfee did not associate the scenario, they have
found with ESET’s research, they did attribute the campaign to Lazarus and pointed out the similarities
with the scenario ESET have found. Through the scenario identified by McAfee, job offerings in the
aforementioned sectors were sent as malicious Docx files, which presented the target with decoy
documents and downloaded a malicious file template as well. The malicious template, a file with the
Dotm extension, injected a malicious DLL library to the target computer, in order to conduct basic
reconnaissance on it.
13 mcafee.com/blogs/other-blogs/mcafee-labs/operation-north-star-a-job-offer-thats-too-good-to-be-true/

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
8 | P a g e
The malicious library, which was hardcoded in the template, is a “doctored” version of some legitimate
library, mostly of SQLite. In other words, the injected library is originally benign, and it was altered with
malicious functions which, as mentioned, collect initial information on the target, for further
evaluation. In order to load the malicious functions of the library, the template contains a VBA script.
Which not only contains the instructions to load the library, but also two of the five parameters
required to do it. When two parameters form the script, and three parameters from the library’s source
code are present, the malicious functions load properly. It is interesting to note, that the library uses
only two parameters, however all five must be present. For additional camouflage, when the library
connects to the C2 server, it mimics the computer’s User-Agent, and if none found – it mimics Mozilla’s
default User-Agent.
Simultaneously with those actions, the malicious template also creates a LNK shortcut in the Startup
folder of the infected computer, thus ensuring persistence; this is in contrast with ESET’s findings of a
scheduled task as persistence mechanism.
Attack Vector – Job Seekers’ Recruitment Campaign
Impersonation of recruitment managers and reaching out to job seekers is a popular practice among
APT groups that rely on social engineering. Since the beginning of 2020, Lazarus also operates a
campaign the focuses on enticing job seekers with attractive places. However, North Korea is not the
only state that uses this tactic: Iran – and APT33 in particular – operates a widespread campaign that
focuses on recruiters’ impersonation too [14] .
The use of this method of reaching out to the target with a tempting offer gives the attackers several
advantages:

Creating a personal connection with the target and creating a false feeling of benefit from the

conversation.

Approaching an employee with a tempting job offer limits the target’s ability to speak about it

with colleagues and prevents information sharing that could jeopardize the whole campaign.

The need of discretion is an important component of this process, because the attacker can

manipulate the target to do certain actions under the pretense of discretion, for example
sending an infected file to the target’s personal email address (also bypassing corporate
security solutions).
In recent months, and especially since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, there was an uptick
in the will of employees to join big, stable working places with better conditions (a “dream job”). This
tendency characterizes periods of crisis and adds to the attackers’ ability to “press on sensitive spots”
of their targets and persuade them to continue with the infection. Working remotely is another
14 fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/09/apt33-insights-into-iranian-cyber-espionage.html

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
9 | P a g e
important component of the attackers’ ability to impersonate persons that the targets have never met,
because many business connections are virtual now.
However, such social engineering tactics also have their deficiencies. For the attack to succeed, the
attacker is almost completely dependent on the target and its cooperation. The attacker needs to
employ sophisticated manipulations of deception and persuasion, because any little suspicion may
lead to fail and wasted means. The attackers are in risk of their infected files being opened on a
cellphone or in a house network rather than the corporate, which will lead the attackers to a dead end.

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
10 | P a g e