Sealing .NET Deserialization Exploits & Best Practices

Telerik Version Update –

If you are running a .NET web application that uses Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX, make sure to use the newest version
that is not vulnerable to known CVEs.

Enforce VIEWSTATE MAC validation and Rotate Machine Keys Routinely –

VIEWSTATE deserialization attacks can easily lead to a network compromise due to a small misconfiguration.
Version 4.5 of .NET enforces the relevant security measures of validating VIEWSTATE messages before attempting
deserialization. Make sure the following configurations are in place:


Ensure the “enableViewStateMac” variable in the IIS configuration is set to True .


Ensure the “aspnet:AllowInsecureDeserialization” variable in the IIS configuration is set to False .


Ensure the registry key “AspNetEnforceViewStateMac” under the path


“HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft.NETFramework\” is set to 1 .
In addition to these security measures, encryption and validation keys should be handled with care as sensitive
credentials. If possible, use auto-generated keys, otherwise routinely rotate the machine keys on your IIS servers
to make sure you would not be susceptible to attacks where keys were stolen or leaked.

Validate any usage of VSTATE in .NET applications –

If any of the .NET web applications running in your environment use the compressed version of VIEWSTATE (whether
homebrew or a third-party application), validate the implementation is done securely. Search for the following piece
of code in your applications, and make sure they are replaced:
Figure 19 : Insecure implementation of compressed VIEWSTATE

Secure ASP.NET session DB –

If ASP.NET session state is used by your web applications make sure access to the database can only be done
from legitimate network locations. Separate session state MSSQL databases between different IIS servers / web
applications as much as possible or create different SQL users with proper minimal CRUD permissions.

Block any unnecessary communications from IIS servers –

Your IIS servers should only generate traffic matching the set of known rules, limit and block these activities to the
minimum possible.

Configure a suitable application pool identity to run the web application –

Make sure your .NET web applications are running with a designated application pool identity with the lowest
privileges possible. This would create an additional obstacle for TG1021.
21