The public and private sectors must work together to fight cybercrime. To do so, each needs to embrace effective ways of working together and foster needed alliances.
Cybercrime impacts everyone, from individuals
to global corporations and critical infrastructures
or governments. It causes immense, though not
always visible, damage to economies and societies.
It drastically undermines the benefits of the Fourth
Industrial Revolution, increases inequality and
hinders international cyber stability efforts.
As in the case of any other crime, systematic
containment efforts against cybercrime must
also include actions against the sources of the
threat. This can only be achieved through stronger
operational collaboration between the private and
public sectors, leveraging private companies’
unique position and capabilities in this field. While
various significant collaborative initiatives exist, they
remain fragmented and insufficient for current needs
and an ever-evolving cybercrime threat landscape.
Following the 2016 work on Recommendations
for Public-Private Partnership against Cybercrime,
the World Economic Forum’s Partnership against
Cybercrime initiative was launched in January
2020 to explore ways to amplify public-private
collaboration in cybercrime investigations and initiate
a paradigm shift in the way to collectively deal with
the growing impact of cybercrime. The initiative’s
working group included more than 50 representatives
from leading public and private organizations.
This report presents the recommendations of the
Partnership against Cybercrime Working Group in
three areas:
Promoting principles for public-private
cooperation to combat cybercrime
The working group defined six principles, to be
endorsed by both law enforcement and private
companies, which can enable sustainable,
repeatable and effective cooperation:
– Embracing a shared narrative for collective
action against cybercrime
– Cooperating on the basis of long-term strategic
alignment
– Undertaking trust-building behaviours
– Systematizing cooperation
– Ensuring value for participation in the
cooperation
– Respecting concerns and challenges
Taking collaborative action to disrupt
cybercrime ecosystems
The working group also emphasized the need to
explore the full spectrum of possible courses of
action to raise the costs and risk for cybercriminals,
leveraging the respective expertise and capabilities
of both the public and private sectors. Specifically,
potential coordinated measures to disrupt and
dismantle criminal activities at scale are insufficiently
used. A decision to participate in such operations
should not be made lightly, but organizations should
not be paralysed by inaction. The Group highlighted
key considerations for decision-makers in assessing
these actions, to maximize the likelihood of success
and minimize unnecessary risks.
Partnering to combat global cybercrime
To increase existing efforts and fully harness the
power of the private sector, facilitating sustainable
and effective cooperation, the working group
recommends launching a three-level system
comprised of:
–
A global partnership, building on the existing
Forum initiative, to bring together international
stakeholders to provide an overarching narrative
and commitment to cooperate; foster interaction
within a global network of entities that drive
efforts to fight cybercrime; and facilitate
strategic dialogues and processes aiming to
support cooperation and overcome barriers in
the long term.
– Permanent Nodes, a global network of existing
organizations that strive to facilitate publicprivate cooperation over time.
– Threat Focus Cells, short-term, mission-driven
groups of partners that engage in concrete,
operational, cooperative efforts. These cells will be
hosted and maintained by the Permanent Nodes.
Partnership against Cybercrime 5