Background
The first server was set up on May 18, 2012, and, just five hours after it was set up, it recorded the first
interaction with a Flamer-compromised client. The server would go on to control at least a few hundred
compromised clients over the next few weeks. The second server was set up on March 25, 2012, and controlled
over a thousand clients in a period of just over one week.
The servers had been set up to record a minimal amount of information in case of discovery. The systems were
configured to disable any unnecessary logging events and entries in the database were deleted at regular
intervals. Existing log files were securely deleted from the servers on a regular basis. These steps were taken in
order to hamper any investigation should the server fall into the hands of investigators or law enforcement.
However, the attackers were not thorough enough, as files revealing the entire history of the servers’ setup were
available and a limited
set of encrypted records Figure 1
in the database revealed Data security compartmentalization used by W32.Flamer attackers
that compromised clients
had been connecting
from the Middle East. We
were also able to recover
the nicknames of four
authors—D, H,
O*, and R—who
had worked on the code
at various stages and on
differing aspects of the
project.
On both servers command
and-control activity
happens through a
Web application called
Newsforyou. It processes
the W32.Flamer client
interactions and provides
a simple control panel.
The control panel allows
the attackers to upload
packages of code to
deliver to compromised
clients, and download
packages containing
stolen client data.
However, in a technique
not previously seen
before the uploaded and
downloaded packages are
encrypted, so infiltrating
the command-and-control
server does not reveal
the code or the stolen
client data. The command
and-control server simply serves as a proxy for the data and the data is encrypted and decrypted offline by the
attackers using keys unique to each client. This application also contains functionality to communicate with
clients compromised by malware other than Flamer. The Web application was designed to be a framework for
supporting different malware campaigns.
In addition to avoiding the compromise of their operations, preventing both the uploading of rogue code and
viewing of stolen data, the setup also maintains a clear distinction of roles. The roles include those responsible
for setting up the server (admins), those responsible for uploading packages and downloading stolen data
through the control panel (operators), and those holding the private key with the ability to decrypt the stolen
data (attack coordinators). The operators themselves may actually be completely unaware of the contents in the
stolen data. This is due to design of the process to use data security compartmentalization techniques, as shown
in Figure 1.
Despite these techniques, we were still able to determine that one of the servers delivered a module instructing
Flamer to commit suicide and wipe itself off computers in late May 2012, an action we also witnessed through
compromised honeypots.
Finally, access to the control panel required a password which is stored as a hash. Despite brute force attempts
at reversing the hash to plain text, we were unable to determine the plain text password.
What follows is a thorough analysis of one of the command-and-control servers, detailing the server setup, the
Web application developed by at least four separate authors since 2006, the control panel used by the operators,
and the database that helps drive the application. The report also includes key information about a second
server, but in-depth details have been omitted to maintain the brevity of this report. The functionality and
structure of both servers is identical. The differences are mainly in the amount of data and number of clients the
servers were exposed to.