B to be data theft as opposed to financial
gain. APT30 has not been observed to target
victims or data that can be readily monetized (for
example, credit card data, personally identifiable
information, or bank transfer credentials). Instead,
their tools include functionality that allows them
to identify and steal documents, including what
appears to be an interest in documents that may be
stored on air-gapped networks.
Both the BACKSPACE and NETEAGLE backdoors
support a range of command functions that allow
the threat actors to manipulate files on the victim
host, including reading and writing files, searching
for files with specific names or attributes, deleting
files, and uploading selected files to the controller.
11 While those commands are not atypical for
full-featured backdoors, some of the BACKSPACE
commands are more specialized, returning file
metadata (such as file name, size, attributes, and
MAC times) to the controller. [12] Transmitting
metadata allows BACKSPACE to send less
data to the server and for the threat actor to
determine, based on results, which files to select
for uploading – both techniques result in less
data transferred over the network, which is less
likely to draw attention.
SHIPSHAPE, SPACESHIP, and FLASHFLOOD are
three separate pieces of malware with different
functions that appear to be designed to work
together to infect removable drives, spread to
additional systems (including potentially airgapped systems), and steal files of interest. The
Figure 16:
Removable drive
infected
by SHIPSHAPE
tools frequently reference (in the mutexes, events,
and registry keys they use) the terms “Flash”
(perhaps for “flash drive”), “Ship”, “ShipTr”, and
“ShipUp”, as though the tools were designed to
“ship” data between computers and a removable
drive. We identified one SPACESHIP variant
that used the term “LunDu” where the term
“ShipTr” would normally appear. “LunDu” ( 轮渡 )
means “ferry” in Chinese and the malware may
be designed to “ferry” stolen documents from
an air-gapped network, to a removable drive, to
an Internet-connected host where they can be
removed by the attacker. In addition, the malware
frequently uses the initials “LD” in several places,
including the SHIPSHAPE version file ( ldupver.
txt ), the folder \$LDDATA$\ used by some
versions of SPACESHIP to store stolen data, and
the .ldf file extension on the encoded files
containing stolen data.
The three tools have separate but complimentary
functions: [13]
SHIPSHAPE is designed to copy files from specific
paths on a SHIPSHAPE-infected computer
to a removable drive inserted into the host.
SHIPSHAPE looks for existing files and folders on
the removable drive and marks them as hidden.
It then copies executable files to the removable
drive, using the same names as the existing
files and folders, but with an .exe extension.
SHIPSHAPE modifies the host settings to hide file
extensions, so the executables appear to be the
original documents. When viewed in Windows
Explorer, the contents of the removable drive
appear normal:
17
SPECIAL REPORT APT30 and the Mechanics of a Long-Running Cyber Espionage Operation
APT30 identifies and steals documents,
especially documents that may be stored on
air-gapped networks.
However, viewing the contents of the drive from the command line will show both sets of files:
A user attempting to “open” a document from
the infected drive would execute a copy of the
malware instead.
SPACESHIP is believed to be the malware that
is copied to a removable drive by SHIPSHAPE,
presumably to transfer SPACESHIP to an airgapped computer. SPACESHIP is designed to
search a victim computer for specific files (based
on file extension or last modified time). Files
that match the search criteria are compressed,
encoded, and copied to a specified location on the
infected host. When a removable drive is inserted
into the infected computer, the encoded files are
copied from that location to the removable drive.
FLASHFLOOD is responsible for copying files
from an inserted removable drive to the hard drive
of an infected computer, presumably to remove
files transferred from the air-gapped system to
an Internet-connected machine for removal from
the victim network. FLASHFLOOD will scan both
the infected system and any inserted removable
drive for specific files (based on file extension or
last modified time) and copy them to a specified
location, using the same compression and
encoding method as SPACESHIP. FLASHFLOOD
may also log additional information about the
victim host, including system information and data
from the user’s Windows Address Book.
18
APT30’S TARGETS ALIGN
with Chinese Government Interests and Focus on Southeast Asia
PT30 has routinely set its sights on
targets across Southeast Asia and India.