7 A Pictorial Introduction to Wicked Rose and NCPH
Just who are Wicked Rose and the NCPH hacker group? As it turns out, a collection of college
students in China who likely room with one another and regularly support their hacking interests.
In-depth research implicates Wicked Rose as the ring-leader of the group, responsible for
managing hacker for hire relationships and paying group members for their work as hackers.
During the time of targeted attacks in 2006 their income increased significantly, to full-time
wages for part time hacking. Wicked Rose, leader of the group, is pictured below:
玫瑰 黑客 (MeiGui HeiKe) “Rose Hacker”
QQ number is 5372453 www.mghacker.com
Wicked Rose maintains a personal site at www.mghacker.com.
Wicked Rose's Website: www.mghacker.com
Rose is an approximate 20-year-old (2006) student at the Sichuan University of Science &
Engineering. In the spring of 2006 Wicked Rose claims to have dropped out of school for full
time hacking opportunities. Specifically, on April 30, 2006 his blog entry claims he did not
register for his university exam. He performed significant updates to his rootkit code from
March through June 2006. He later returned to school by September 2006.
Wicked Rose claims responsibility on his blog for targeted e-mail based attacks containing
Microsoft Word and CHM exploits from the spring of 2006.
Other NCPH-member websites include: http://rodag.blogbus.com,
http://www.cppblog.com/charles and http://kungbim.blogbus.com. The main NCPH website is
www.ncph.net:
NCPH Studio website www.ncph.net
Registration information for ncph.net reveals a Chinese registrant:
Registrant Contact: ncph studio (ncph2005@126.com) si chuan li gong xue yuan
zigong, Sichuan, cn 643000 P: +86.13154663992 F: +86.13154663992
The main location of the NCPH group is in Zigong, Sichuan Province, in south-central China.
Zigong, Sichuan Province, in south-central China
The NCPH group (NCPH Studio) in Zigong, China, is shown here:
NCPH hackers at work in the “ncph studio”
Left to right: “Wicked Rose,” KuNgBiM, Charles and Rodag
Additional photos featuring Wicked Rose and NCPH hackers are below, captured from their
various websites and blog entries in 2006. Chinese translation for each photo are below:
"Wicked Rose"
From an ancient Chinese poem,
expressing the devotion of his heart for
hacking.
Charles: "Silence belongs to our
world..."
Ronag
"Behind every successful design, he
always has a slight smile…"
"After you choose the technology you
love, you have to research every system
and code everyday!"
Charles
"Charles always laughs so brightly when
searching for program problems!"
KuNgBiM
"Only we can feel this kind of happy..."
Wicked Rose and NCPH hacking photos
WHG (“Fig”)
WHG is not a core member of NCPH but a close affiliate of Wicked Rose. WHG appears to be
central to development of the NCPH rootkit, aka GinWui. WHG is credited by Wicked Rose as
one of the authors of this malicious code. WHG is an experienced malicious code author with
the following contact information:


E-mail address: whg@163.com


QQ Number: 312016


Website: http://cnasm.com


Real Name: May be "Zhao Jibing", 赵纪斌.


Location: Believed to be employed in the Sichuan province of China.


WZT
WZT is a former member of the NCPH group who was kicked out during the time of zero-day
attacks in May 2006. WZT was removed on May 20, 2006. During this time period the zeroday attacks became publicly disclosed, increasing pressure upon the hacking group. It is feasible
that WZT may have offended the group in some way related to zero-day attack techniques, strife
over hacker for hire deals, or competition for hacker for hire deals.
WZT is a former coding expert within the NCPH group and many years experience in hacking.
He is responsible for creating multiple tools and regularly giving credit to the infamous Li0n
Chinese hacker (founder of Honker Union (HUC) Chinese group. WZT maintains a website at
tthacker.cublog.cn.
The Jiangsu Connection?
WHOIS registrant data for related domains used within attacks and hacker sites reveals a
connection with the Jiangsu province of China. One domain, windowsupdates.net, is used in
attacks and revolves to an IP address in the Sichuan province. Meanwhile, the registrant
"zhaofeng network" is reportedly based out of Jiangsu, not Sichuan. Some of the WHOIS
information clearly contains fraudulent information to presumably direct researchers away from
the true identity and location of the attacker responsible for registering the hostile domain. The
connection to the Jiangsu and Sichuan provinces remains unclear.