3.4. Shared code: a competing hypothesis
Our technical attribution ( Section 3.3 ) can only establish that code that makes the same
distinctive implementation choices as PacketLogic’s was used in the injection in Turkey
and Egypt. It is possible that another vendor copied PacketLogic’s design, such as by
studying and exactly re-implementing PacketLogic’s custom TCP stack and HTTP header
format in injected redirects. It is also possible that, with or without Sandvine’s knowledge,
a third party obtained and copied PacketLogic’s code. It might also be possible that both
Sandvine and other companies drew their code from the same third-party codebase.
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 11/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
There are, however, several reasons why the shared code hypothesis is unlikely to be an
accurate explanation of our findings. First, the 2016 controversy within Procera about
selling their solution to Turkey for surveillance (referred to in Section 1.3 ) indicates a
possible prior business relationship between the company and Turkey. Second, we have
not been able to locate any codebase with both the same distinctive IPID value and the
same distinctive HTTP header format; the only references to IPID values of 13330 7
(0x3412) we found were a 2016 OONI report about the ad injection we mention in
Section 5 , and a 2004 forum post by an individual in Sweden curious as to why he was
seeing IPID values of 13330 when he tried to ping the IP addresses of his website’s
visitors with unsolicited TCP segments. It is significant in this regard that it was a
Swedish company, Netintact AB, founded in 2000, that developed and sold the
PacketLogic product before Procera acquired the company in 2006. Third, performing
single packet injection in a TCP connection is a relatively simple feat to achieve; an
engineer wishing to implement this functionality would likely not need to study or copy
another implementation.