2.2  Field Investigation
Our objective is to ultimately understand the capabilities and motivations of those engaged in targeted malware
attacks. Field research provides critical insight into the methods and operations of the attackers. By analyzing
computers at locations that are routinely targeted by (similar) attackers, we aim to identify portions of command and control infrastructure that the attackers use for particular targets as well as document the type of
data that the attackers exfiltrate from the targets. However, our research aims to be more than just extracting
information from those who have been compromised.
JR03-2010 Shadows in the Cloud - PART 2: METHODOLOGY & INVESTIGATIVE TECHNIQUES 9
The Tracking GhostNet investigation revealed significant compromises at Tibetan-exile and Indian targets. It
was also found that Indian government related entities, both in India proper and throughout the world, had
been thoroughly compromised. These included computers at Indian embassies in Belgium, Serbia, Germany,
Italy, Kuwait, the United States, Zimbabwe, and the High Commissions of India in Cyprus and the United
Kingdom. During the GhostNet investigation we had discovered evidence of multiple infections for which the
information available was incomplete, and to which we wanted to return for follow up. In particular, we found
one piece of malware uploading sensitive documents. Another report published soon after Tracking GhostNet,
entitled “The Gh0st in the Shell: Network Security in the Himalayas,” analysed the network traffic of Air Jaldi,
a community WiFi network in Dharamsala, India. It found that computers in Dharamsala were connecting with
two of the control servers documented in our report (Vallentin et al. 2009).
With the aim of focusing on both these wider pattern of compromises, and the hanging threads from the previous investigation, we worked with our existing approach, informed by the view that collecting data as close
to the intended target as possible was likely to yield actionable evidence of breaches that could be followed
through to their source, lead to wider pools of target sets, and yield information on the attackers.
In conducting the field research we were influenced by the Action Research (AR) literature (Lewin 1946; Curle
1947) that has evolved since the 1940s, as well as other field-based investigation and research techniques. The
AR field-based approach feeds into the fusion methodology that guides our overall investigatory process. It
employs ethical and participatory observations and structured focused interviews. We combined this grounded
research with technical interrogation, including network monitoring activities. As with GhostNet, we were
fortunate to have the cooperation of Tibetan organizations, and benefited tremendously from the willingness of
His Holiness the Dalai Lama and other Tibetans to share information with our investigators. As a result, for the
Shadow investigation we conducted primary field research in Dharamsala, India from August until December
2009. (Dharamsala is the location of the OHHDL as well as the TGIE).
The primary objectives of the field investigations were to research the wider patterns of compromised Indian
and Tibetan related targets, investigate the reports of targeted malware attacks that have emerged from the
Tibetan community, and raise information and computer security awareness within the Tibetan community
and assist in their security planning and implementation. Throughout the field investigation process, we also
investigated the broader social, political, military, and intelligence context. We conducted extensive on-site
interviews with officials in the Tibetan Government-in-Exile, the Office of the Dalai Lama and Tibetan NGOs.
These interviews allowed us to gain an understanding of the security practices and network infrastructure of
compromised locations. We also used network monitoring software during field investigations in order to collect
technical data from compromised computer systems and perform an initial analysis to confirm the existence
of malware and the transfer of information between compromised computers and command and control servers. The network monitoring tools allowed us to collect samples from compromised computers and identify
command and control servers used by the attackers. The network monitoring was undertaken with the explicit
consent of the Tibetan organizations.
While monitoring the network traffic of a local NGO, Common Ground, as part of an Internet security audit,
traffic from a local WiFi mesh network, TennorNet was also captured, revealing malicious activity. An anomaly
was detected when analyzing this traffic: computers in Dharamsala were beaconing or checking in with a command and control server (jdusnemsaz.com/119.84.4.43) located in Chongqing, PRC. The location of Chongqing
is contextually interesting as it has a high concentration of Triads — well known Asian-based organized criminal networks — who have significant connections to the Chinese government and the Chinese Communist Party
(Lam 2009). The Triads have extended their traditional criminal activities to include technology-enabled crime
JR03-2010 Shadows in the Cloud - PART 2: METHODOLOGY & INVESTIGATIVE TECHNIQUES 10
such as “computer software piracy and credit card forgery and fraud” (Choo 2008).
An investigation revealed that the computer on TennorNet generating the malicious traffic belonged to Mr. Serta
Tsultrim, a Tibetan Member of Parliament, editor of of the weekly Tibetan language newspaper Tibet Express
and the director of the Khawa Karpo Tibet Culture Centre. Tsultrim is also the coordinator of the Association of
Tibetan Journalists (ATJ). We probed for his threat perception, and who he felt might be targeting him and why.
We sought to establish his perception of what documents and correspondence might be particularly sensitive.
Tsultrim was particularly concerned about this network being compromised.
Following the discovery of this compromise, we approached the OHHDL and formally requested permission
to audit network traffic to determine whether we could identify similar beacon packets associated with the
command and control server (jdusnemsaz.com/119.84.4.43). A representative of OHHDL agreed that we could
access the office network under an agreement similar to the initial GhostNet investigation. In consultation with
OHHDL staff, we focused our attention on the desktop machines that were most likely to be compromised, and
commenced a network tap of a number of workstations. Interestingly, it was one of these workstations that
was the origin of the GhostNet investigation, where we had observed sensitive documents being exfiltrated in
September 2008. Almost immediately we identified malicious traffic connecting with the command and control
server (jdusnemsaz.com/119.84.4.43).
Our next step was to refer to the management interface in the ICSA-certified Cyberoam firewall that the OHHDL
had installed in their network as part of their extensive upgrading of security procedures in the wake of the
GhostNet breach. We isolated all outbound traffic to the command and control server and identified any other
machines on the office Local Area Network that were currently, or had recently, been communicating with the
command and control server. From the Cyberoam interface we were able to identify one other machine that was
compromised. We proceeded to tap the traffic from this machine and began to see domain names associated
with the distributed social media command and control channels that we would later identify in the lab as part
of the command and control infrastructure. Similarly, the lab investigation was able to reconstruct the documents
that were exfiltrated from OHHDL machines and we were able to brief OHHDL on the extent of the breach.