Hacktivist Support to the State
Little in the internal writings on Chinese INEW strategy or other writings on IW
theory or strategy suggests that the PLA or state security bureaus intend to
use hacktivist attacks as a component of a CNO campaign and there is little
compatibility between the principles of the INEW strategy as they are known
from open sources and the common characteristics of most hacktivist attacks.
While the simple absence of PLA discussions of the topic—or the absence of sources
in which it is discussed—does not prove an unwillingness to engage hacker groups in
these types of attacks, several factors argue against formal PLA plans to include
hacktivism as part of a CNO campaign in wartime.

Command and Control : The lack of an easily implemented command and
control structure from the PLA to the hacker community at large makes guiding
or directing attacks extremely difficult. Once initiated, hacktivist attacks have
the potential develop their own momentum and begin operating beyond the
PLA’s or civilian government’s ability to easily control the participants or their
targeting. Self-generating hacktivist attacks also have the potential to interfere
with sensitive CNO missions by inadvertently disrupting the PLA’s own
computer network attacks. Hacktivist attacks on a Chinese adversary may
also risk shutting down lines of communication in use for intelligence collection
or accidently overwhelm channels the PLA is using as feedback loops to
monitor the effectiveness of their network attacks.

Precision Targeting : The core principles that seem to guide the INEW strategy
are based on precision targeting and disciplined coordination to strike carefully
selected nodes of an enemy’s information systems judged to have maximum
operational impact. The goal is to establish control over the adversary’s ability
to access or disseminate information. Hacktivist target selection, in contrast, is
generally based on political or nationalist symbolism and not on an alignment
with real or perceived PLA campaign objectives and may actually hinder PLA
operations or intelligence gathering. Chinese hackers reportedly destroyed
large volumes of data on the US Web servers they attacked during the US EP3 crisis in April 2001. [79] Similar data destruction against US military servers
during a conflict may eliminate valuable intelligence sources for the PLA or
destroy data already altered by the PLA as part of a larger deception or
perception management operation. Large scale distributed denial of service
attacks or high profile Web defacements can also potentially undo
79 OSC, CPP20010510000031, “Chinese Hackers Call for Ceasefire in Sino-US Hacker War,” Agence
France Presse, 10 May 2001.
40
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
backchannel or even overt diplomatic efforts to resolve a crisis or negate the
effects of carefully crafted psychological operations.
Indications and warning : Surprise and deception are central to the INEW
strategy and Chinese hacktivist attacks generally lack both. Online mass
organization is inherently public and while many hacker groups may implement
nominal vetting of members or attempt to close their discussion threads, there
is still a need to publicize the cause, announce the targets and if necessary,
disseminate tools; all of which greatly increases the likelihood that the plans
will be detected and successfully countered. The organizers of the attempted
CNN DDoS attack rescheduled their attack and changed Websites in part
because of publicity generated by the US-based researchers noted previously
who monitored the attack preparations on the Chinese hacker Websites and
alerted CNN.