Key Judgments
We continue to discover infrastructure overlaps among several
Iranian threat actor groups. When coupled with our prior
research on the tiered approach to the Iranian cyber operational
administration, we assess that distinctions between these threat
actor groups continue to blur, which leads us to consider the
following hypotheses, which are not mutually exclusive:
- Some form of organizational overlap is placed over the

management of operational resources between Iranian
groups.
- The overlaps indicate that the groups are closely aligned,

share resources, and are possibly all working for the same
organization, which we assess is likely to be the IRGC for the
APT33, APT35, and MUDDYWATER nexus.
- The infrastructure overlaps point to a potential

misclassification of Iranian threat actor groups, or suggest
that the groups have evolved such that previous classifications
may be inadequate.
In two separate instances, we identified unique domain
characteristics that linked a domain spoofing the Saudi International
Petrochemical Company and used by the Iran-nexus threat actor
group to the operational infrastructure of the suspected-Russian
state-sponsored threat actor BlueAlpha. We have high confidence
in the association of these domains and the operational activity
associated with them to BlueAlpha in 2019, which points to the
following potential hypotheses:
- BlueAlpha mimicked the TTPs of the Iran-nexus groups.

We assess that this is a likely scenario given the two (1, 2)
very notable recent examples of FSB-affiliated threat actors
hijacking Iranian APT infrastructure.
- BlueAlpha commandeered old Iran-nexus group

infrastructure. Insikt Group assesses that this is also a likely
scenario, given that other FSB-affiliated threat actors such as
Turla have demonstrated an effective ability to use false flags.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-1212 | 2
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
- Iran-nexus group mimicked Gamaredon Group TTPs. Insikt

Group assesses this to be an unlikely scenario, because it
would require a very high degree of technical and operational
preparedness and would be a high-risk maneuver by the Irannexus group in order to target Ukrainian interests.
- An operational collaboration exists between the Iran

nexus group and BlueAlpha. While collaboration on training
and sharing of techniques is plausible, actual operational
infrastructure sharing would require non-trivial deconfliction
efforts to ensure targeted operations were effective. We
assess this to be an unlikely scenario.