1.9. ZeroCleare: A Likely Collaboration Between Iranian State Sponsored Groups
X-Force IRIS assesses that the ZeroCleare campaign included compromise and access by
actors from the ITG13 group and at least one additional group, likely Iran-based threat actors.
This assessment is based on ITG13's traditional mission, which has not included executing
destructive cyber-attacks in the past, the gap in time between the initial access facilitated by
ITG13, the last stage of the intrusion, as well as the different TTPs observed.
Let’s look at the details of some of the resources used throughout the ZeroCleare attack and
which can connect it with ITG13.
For initial access, the IP address 193.111.152[.]13, which was associated with ITG13 in recent
Oilrig/APT34 leaks, and as also reported by Palo Alto, was used to scan target networks and
access an account as early as the Fall of 2018. [7] A different Iranian threat actor likely accessed
accounts from that address in mid-2019 preceding disk wiping operations.
One of the IP addresses used to access compromised network accounts in mid-2019 was
194.187.249[.]103, which is adjacent to another IP address, 194.187.249[.]102. That last IP
address was used several months prior to the attack by the threat actor Hive0081 (aka
xHunt). [8] While an interesting adjacency, X-Force IRIS does not have evidence Hive0081 was
7 https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/behind-the-scenes-with-oilrig/
8 https://exchange.xforce.ibmcloud.com/collection/Suspected-Iranian-Threat-Actor-Campaign-Targeting-Kuwaiti-Entities-
04abb9338fef57ce9ecdec1c81d73865/reports
New Destructive Wiper “ZeroCleare” Targets Energy Sector in the Middle East | X-Force IRIS
Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restrictions at the end of this document. 22
involved in the ZeroCleare attack. Additionally, while recent reporting indicates that the
Russian threat actor IRIS tracks as ITG12 (aka Turla) had access to ITG13 tools and
infrastructure potentially during this time frame, X-Force IRIS does not believe ITG12 was
behind the ZeroCleare attack. [9]
During the destructive phase, the threat actor brute forced passwords to gain access to several
network accounts, which were used to install the China Chopper and Tunna web shells after
exploiting a SharePoint vulnerability. X-Force IRIS found an additional web shell named
"extension.aspx", which shared similarities with the ITG13 tool known as
TWOFACE/SEASHARPEE including the methods that were dynamically called from assembly,
the use of AES encryption, as well as single letter variable names.
The same threat actor also attempted to leverage legitimate remote access software, such as
TeamViewer, and used an obfuscated version of Mimikatz to collect credentials from
compromised servers.
Regarding the ZeroCleare malware itself, while it shares some high-level similarities with
Shamoon v3, specifically in how it used an EldoS RawDisk driver, X-Force IRIS assesses that
ZeroCleare is dissimilar enough in its code and deployment mechanism to be considered
distinct from the Shamoon malware family and treated as separate malware.
While X-Force IRIS cannot attribute the activity observed during the destructive phase of the
ZeroCleare campaign, we assess that high-level similarities with other Iranian threat actors,
including the reliance on ASPX web shells and compromised VPN accounts, the link to ITG13
activity, and the attack aligning with Iranian objectives in the region, make it likely this attack
was executed by one or more Iranian threat groups.