Bank-credential stealers evade Play Store controls
Bankers – apps designed to steal the credentials for financial institutions
– have been troubling Android users for a long time. This type of malware
continues to put pressure on Google, who play a cat and mouse game
to prevent bankers from infiltrating the Play Store. Android bankers have
evolved over time to evade automated malicious code detection.
Bankers seen on the Play Store in 2019 have been, predominantly, downloaders.
The apps available through the Play Store have appeared as financerelated applications which download second-stage banker payloads in the
background. Because the malicious code is not present in the file until after
the user downloads and installs the app on their device, it is very difficult for
Google's security scanning services to detect and prevent these threats.
Bankers have also begun to abuse various app permissions on Android,
such as the Accessibility permission (which is supposed to help users with
disabilities). Malicious apps use this permission to grant themselves the
rights to install a payload, and to monitor actions such as keystrokes on
virtual keyboards when users log in to legitimate banking applications.
December 2019 10
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
Figure 6: A sample attack flow, highlighting how an Android banker malware called
Anubis bypasses Google's malicious code detection in the Play Store
The Anubis banker Trojan serves as a great case study in obfuscation. For instance,
not only does the malware conceal its true intent, but it uses "out of band"
methods for communicating with its operator(s), such as checking specific social
media accounts on Twitter or Telegram, rather than a more traditional connection
directly to a C2 server. The social media posts appear to the world as if it were
just a string of Chinese characters, but the reality is much more insidious.
Figure 7: One of the Telegram accounts monitored by an Anubis Trojan
December 2019 11
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
Messages such as these conceal a complex encoding scheme which includes the
use of a substitution cipher that swaps characters from the Chinese (simplified)
alphabet to the Latin alphabet, and then perform further decoding on the output.
Figure 8: How Anubis transforms strings of Chinese glyphs into the URL of a command and control server
To be fair, Google have brought security improvements with newer versions
of the Android operating system, but the game of cat and mouse, between
Google's gatekeepers and the crooks, continues. Because not all Android
users get regular updates, the fragmentation of the Android OS keeps
some users from having the best protection against malware.
December 2019 12
Sophos 2020 Threat Report