•
[mshta hxxp://149.154.157.248:80/SlaMn]
The PTI Team was able to obtain and analyze one of the HTA scripts executed inside a
victim’s device. After the initial analysis, the PTI Team came to the conclusion that this HTA
script was a obfuscated Koadic agent. The analyzed Koadic sample was accessible on
address hxxp://104.128.228.76:9999/PAf3W during the investigation.
Figure 21. Contents of the obfuscated Koadic agent HTA file
Upon de-obfuscating the Koadic agent, following config values was successfully extracted.
Figure 22. Koadic agent config values
24 / 51
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law No. 6698. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without
providing any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report
nor any of its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE SilverFish APT Group
3.3.2 Sarasota Script
The PTI Team was also able to discover another novel enumeration script used frequently
by the SilverFish group. The initiating function of the script is named Sarasota and was most
probably written by the SilverFish group. The encoded form of Sarasota script in the following
image was executed on more than 200 victims’ machines.
Figure 23. Sarasota script execution task on C&C
The decoded contents of the Sarasota script contains functions for searching domain objects
in the domain active directory structure. This allows the SilverFish group to find any type of file
or folder stored inside a target domain active directory. The script includes several parameters
for searching the domain objects. It is able to enumerate the printers inside the domain and
computers with unconstrained delegation before performing the search. Moreover, it is able
to filter computers with specific SPNs, operating systems, service packs and server references.
Sarasota script is also able to run with or without valid domain credentials.
Figure 24. Sarasota DirectorySearcher code
Some of the Sarasota filter parameters used by the SilverFish group are listed below.