3.6 MS10-092: Exploiting a 0-day in Task Scheduler
Yet another vulnerability that Stuxnet exploits in order to elevate privileges concerns the Task Scheduler
Service implemented in Windows operating systems starting from Windows Vista. Remarkably enough,
64-bit version of the operating systems are vulnerable as well as x86 versions. Exploiation of the
vulnerability allows Stuxnet to elevate its privileges up to SYSTEM level.
There vulnerability represented a serious flaw in the original design of the service: namely in the way it
controlled integrity of the metadata describing scheduled jobs. In operating systems after Windows
Vista, Task Scheduler creates an xml file with configuration information for each registered job. These
files are usually located in the %SystemRoot%\system32\Tasks folder (if not otherwise specified) and
contain such information as type of the job, path to the executable and command line arguments,
account that the executable will be run under, required privileges and so on.
Figure 3.25 – A part of the configuration file describing a job
In the figure above you can see part of the configuration xml file for a task. The Principals section in the
file defines required privileges for the job, while the Actions section defines what the job should do (to
get the full list of possible job actions we refer the reader to MSDN). In particular case as described in
figure 3.25 the job will run the notepad application with no command line arguments, using the
LocalSystem account with the highest available privileges.
Although the Task Scheduler directory can be read only by LocalSystem and members of the local
administrators group, the file describing the task scheduled by a user is fully accessible to him as long as
he isn’t a Guest( as can be seen on the following figure 3.26). To protect the integrity of the job
configuration files and prevent users from modifying them (for instance to elevate privileges by
overwriting the Principals section), Task Scheduler calculates a checksum on creating a task. When it is
time to start the job, Task Scheduler recalculates it and compares the new check sum to the original
value: if they match the job is run.
The flaw in the aforementioned scenario is that Task Scheduler calculates the checksum with the CRC32
algorithm (you can find a description of the algorithm in Appendix D). This is known to be good for
detecting unintentional errors (mainly due to transmitting data through communication channels) but
not intentional as in the case. It is known also that the CRC32 algorithm has linear properties that make
it very easy to create another message with the same checksum as the specified message.
www.eset.com
41
Figure 3.26 – Access permissions to the Task folder and a task file
This is exactly what Stuxnet does in order to elevate its privileges in unpatched Vista and later operating
systems. Here is a brief summary of the algorithm that Stuxnet uses to exploit the vulnerability:

Create a job that will be run under the current user account with the least available

privileges;

Read the task configuration file corresponding to the task created at step 1 and calculate

its CRC32 checksum;

Modify the task configuration file corresponding to the task created at step 1 so that it

matches the same check sum as the original file and set the following properties:
a. Principal Id=LocalSystem (principal for the task that provides security
credentials);
b. UserId=S-1-5-18 (SID of the LocalSystem);
c. RunLevel=HighestAvailable (run with the highest available privileges);
d. Actions Context=LocalSystem (security context under which the actions of the
task are performed);

Run the task.

To ensure that the modified file has the same check sum value as the original, it appends a special
comment of the form  to the end of the file and calculates XY (the algorithm for calculating this
www.eset.com
42
value is presented in Appendex E) such that it has the specified CRC32 check sum value. The result of
such manipulations is as shown in figure 3.27:
Figure 3.27 – Forged task configuration file
As a result Task Scheduler will start the task normally with the specified privileges.
Microsoft's patch
On the 14th of December 2010 Microsoft released a security update (MS10-092) to fix the vulnerability
in Windows Task Scheduler service which allows elevation of privilege, as described above. To protect
the integrity of the xml schema describing a task, the service already used the crc-32 algorithm. Thus,
given a task xml schema, it is possible to create another schema with the same checksum.
To fix the vulnerability Microsoft implemented an additional SHA-256 cryptographic hash algorithm to
check the integrity of a task xml schema. If we look into the updated schedsvc.dll library which
implements the service, we can find a type HashCompute which is not present in the unpatched library:
Figure 3.28 - Available methods of the HashCompute type
The type was implemented to provide integrity checking for the xml schemas that define tasks. Here are
cross-references to the HashCompute::ComputeHash method which tell us when the hash value is
calculated and when it is checked:
Figure 3.29 - Cross-references to HashCompute::ComputeHash method
If we look at the implementation of the HashCompute::ComputeHash method, the following code can be
found, which calculates hash value of the xml schema:
www.eset.com
43
Figure 3.30 - Opening handle to Microsoft Enhanced RDA and EAS Cryptographic Provider
Figure 3.31 - Computing SHA-256 of xml schema
The SHA-256 hash function is known to be secure against finding the second pre-image and collisions,
unlike the crc-32 checksum algorithm. Thus given an xml schema that define a task it is impossible in
polynomial (real) time to construct another xml schema with the same hash value. This means that it is
no longer possible to exploit the vulnerability on a patched system in the way that Win32/Stuxnet
attempts.
MS10-092 in Win32/Olmarik
A new modification of the notorious rootkit Win32/Olmarik.AIY, also known as TDL4 (you can read
"TDL3: The Rootkit of All Evil?" report for detailed information about previous version of the rootkit)
appeared in the end of November which is capable of elevating privileges on Microsoft Windows
operating systems starting from Windows Vista by means of exploiting the MS10-092 vulnerability.
TDL4's implementation of the code that exploits the vulnerability doesn't essentially differ from that of
Stuxnet's code. The rootkit creates a legitimate task by means of the available interface in the system,
then reads the xml schema corresponding to the task directly from the file in the Task Scheduler folder,
and then modifies it:
Fig. 3.32: Modification of xml Schema
It sets certain attributes with the following values:
www.eset.com