Exposing Cosmic Lynx’s Russian Origin
Historically, a vast majority of BEC attacks have originated from actors in Nigeria. Looking
at Cosmic Lynx’s attacks, though, it is clear they are a different breed than other active
cybercriminal groups conducting BEC operations. Our assessment finds that Cosmic Lynx is
likely composed of Russia-based actors, based on analysis of their attacks and infrastructure.
The first piece of evidence that ties back to a Russian nexus is the time/date stamp in the
email headers of some of the Cosmic Lynx attacks. Generally, the Date field in an email header
reflects the time and date an email was sent and usually includes a UTC offset. While this UTC
offset can be modified by either the sender or routing infrastructure, in many cases this offset
will reflect the time zone of the sender. For many of the Cosmic Lynx attacks we have analyzed,
the UTC offset in the email headers are set to +0300 (MSK), which corresponds to Moscow
Standard Time. Moscow Standard Time is only observed in the eastern parts of Russia, as well
as Belarus and very small parts of Georgia and Ukraine. Since none of the routing infrastructure
used by Cosmic Lynx or their targets are located in Russia, and it is unlikely an actor would
spoof an MSK offset, we assess that this is the likely time zone of the sender(s) of these
messages.
Cosmic Lynx email header with Moscow Standard Time UTC offset.
As we discussed earlier, some of the infrastructure used by Cosmic Lynx to send BEC emails
overlaps with infrastructure used by Trickbot and Emotet malware, which is believed to be tied
to Russian actors. In addition to these potential connections, we have also observed multiple
instances where IP addresses linked to Cosmic Lynx’s BEC domain have overlapped with
infrastructure used to host Russian fake document websites. These sites, which seem to be
catering to individuals in Russia and Ukraine, sell a variety of false Russian-language documents,
such as diplomas, birth certificates, and death certificates.
21
Screenshots from Russian fake document
website linked to Cosmic Lynx infrastructure.
22
The final piece of evidence pointing to Russian attribution comes from the metadata of
documents sent by Cosmic Lynx in some of their BEC attacks. During one of our engagements
with Cosmic Lynx, they sent us a document containing wire transfer instructions for a payment,
as well as a fake non-disclosure agreement. A review of the metadata of these documents
shows they were last saved by user “Serge Devant” prior to being sent to us. Serge Devant
is the name of a DJ from Saint Petersburg, Russia. While the name of this user can be easily
changed to reflect any name, using the name of a Russian DJ, regardless of whether it is
legitimate or not, is notable. It should be noted that we have no evidence that the real Serge
Devant is associated with Cosmic Lynx activity.
Fake Cosmic Lynx NDA and metadata with references to Serge Devant.
While none of these pieces of evidence on their own would warrant a solid attribution case, we
believe looking at the totality of evidence together builds a strong circumstantial argument that
some, if not all, Cosmic Lynx actors are based in Russia.
23