Conclusion
The North American electric sector cyber threat landscape is diverse and active. Activity groups have
demonstrated capabilities that could impact operations and network connectivity across operational
environments. Electric utilities remain at risk for a disruptive – and potentially destructive – cyberattack due
to the political and economic impact such an event may cause.
Although North America has not experienced a disruptive cyberattack to electric system operations and
reliability, ICS-targeting adversaries previously demonstrated the capability to disrupt electricity in Europe.
With additional resources and retooling, such disruptive methods could potentially be applicable to the North
American electric system.
At this time, Dragos has observed adversary activity targeting utility enterprise networks which may enable
intial intrusion and reconnaissance at those entity sites. The data gathered and access achieved could facilitate
preliminary steps for a potentially disruptive event within the OT environment. Dragos has also observed
adversary reconnaissance inside ICS networks.
44 https://dragos.com/blog/industry-news/threat-analytics-and-activity-groups/
©2019 Dragos, Inc. All rights reserved. [Protected] Non-confidential content. January 8, 2020
16
The increasing threat of supply chain and third-party attacks is concerning. They provide opportunities for
adversaries to compromise operations environments and bypass a utility’s security stack over trusted
connections. The aforementioned weaponized USB, software updates and maintenance work will also clear
most security barriers as the OEMs, maintenance engineers and MSPs are seen as trustworthy and non-hostile.
NERC Registered Entities with in-scope systems can take advantage of the recent focus around CIP-013 to
create robust supply chain risk management programs focused on both security and compliance objectives
across operations.
A disruptive attack would require significant effort to achieve in North America, and as an adversary must spend
significant time within compromised networks to learn operations (i.e. dwell time) this provides defenders with
numerous opportunities to identify and remove malicious activity prior to disruption. Defenders still maintain
the advantage at this time.
©2019 Dragos, Inc. All rights reserved. [Protected] Non-confidential content. January 8, 2020
17