Overview
“Ambuscade: To attack suddenly and without warning from a concealed place”
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/blog/threat-insight/asylum-ambuscade-state-actor-uses-compromised-private-ukrainian-military-emails 1/18
4/27/22, 4:16 PM Asylum Ambuscade: State Actor Uses Compromised Private Ukrainian Military Emails to Target European Governments and Refugee Mo…
Proofpoint researchers have identified a phishing campaign originating from an email
address (ukr[.]net) that appears to belong to a compromised Ukranian armed service
member. This discovery comes on the heels of alerts by the Ukrainian Computer
Emergency Response Team (CERT-UA) and the State Service of Special Communications
and Information Protection of Ukraine about widespread phishing campaigns targeting
private email accounts of Ukrainian armed service members by ‘UNC1151’, which
Proofpoint tracks as part of TA445. The email observed by Proofpoint may represent the
next stage of these attacks. The email included a malicious macro attachment which
utilized social engineering themes pertaining to the Emergency Meeting of the NATO
Security Council held on February 23, 2022. The email also contained a malicious
attachment which attempted to download malicious Lua malware named SunSeed and
targeted European government personnel tasked with managing transportation and
population movement in Europe. While Proofpoint has not definitively attributed this
campaign to the threat actor TA445, researchers acknowledge that the timeline, use of
compromised sender addresses aligning with Ukrainian government reports, and the
victimology of the campaign align with published TA445 tactics to include the targeting
and collection around refugee movement in Europe.
Proofpoint assesses that, in light of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, actions by proxy
actors like TA445 will continue to target European governments to gather intelligence
around the movement of refugees from Ukraine and on issues of importance to the
Russian government. TA445, which appears to operate out of Belarus, specifically has
a history of engaging in a significant volume of disinformation operations intended to
manipulate European sentiment around the movement of refugees within NATO
countries. These controlled narratives may intend to marshal anti-refugee sentiment
within European countries and exacerbate tensions between NATO members, decreasing
Western support for the Ukrainian entities involved in armed conflict. This approach is
a known factor within the hybrid warfare model employed by the Russian military and by
extension that of Belarus.