Notable Activity
State
Targeted Intrusion Trends in 2014
Incidents of targeted intrusion activity related to nation-state interests have
been on the increase for the past several years. Different states’ activities
often reflect their national interests and agendas, or their deepest concerns.
As an example, Chinese nation-state actors appeared to clearly align and plan
operations in support of real-world activities in the case of the Haiyang Shiyou
981 oil platform. In direct contradiction to pre-planned operations, in the case
of the Umbrella Revolution that dominated the streets of Hong Kong during
the summer and fall of 2014, Chinese adversary groups were observed broadly
targeting any and all organizations related to the civil unrest in a wild attempt
to collect intelligence on the protestors and their movements.
During the course of 2014, CrowdStrike observed the continued proliferation
of targeted intrusion activity. Nation-states understand the value of
collecting intelligence in the information domain and are mobilizing
resources to capitalize on the intelligence opportunities that exist there.
While the CrowdStrike Intelligence team identified and analyzed well over a
dozen new adversary groups worldwide in 2014, there were several that were
of general interest.
FLYING KITTEN
FLYING KITTEN is an adversary believed to be operating
out of the Islamic Republic of Iran. This group was first
observed initiating targeted intrusion activity in late 2013
and has continued to be active throughout 2014. In January
2014, CrowdStrike became aware of an ongoing operation by this actor
targeting a company in the defense industrial base in the United States. This
campaign leveraged fake websites to trick users into entering credentials,
and to concurrently serve malware that poses as software updates for
legitimate applications. Shortly after this activity was identified, other
campaigns against additional targets in the defense and aerospace sectors
were observed. Evidence supporting the attribution of FLYING KITTEN to
Iran is found in their secondary focus, which targets Iranian dissidents in
foreign countries, as well as in Iran itself.
19