5. Possible Deception Operations
Not all of the domains associated with this group appear to have been built to spread malware, or to trick victims into
entering their passwords. Several domains are extensively built out, and currently maintained, which appear to be
designed to convey the impression of active, news media sites. Some of these sites contain ‘original’ news stories and
‘leaks’ about political figures. At least two of these sites seem Venezuela-specific, while a third is Ecuador-oriented.
What makes these three fake organizations exceptionally interesting is that we have found no evidence that they are
used to seed malware or conduct phishing, either directly, or as pretexts for messages. While it may be that we simply
https://citizenlab.org/2015/12/packrat-report/ 25/40
2015/12/11 Packrat: Seven Years of a South American Threat Actor
lack visibility on the targeting, it may be that the pages and identities serve another function. They may be attempts to
seed false information, or might serve as watering holes to attract individuals that Packrat or its sponsors wish to monitor.
They may also be coupled with other operations on which we have no visibility.
5.1 Anti-Chavez: The Very Strange Case of pancaliente.info
Update: immediately prior to the publication of this report the Pancaliente.info site went offline. The site is still viewable in
Google’s cache. The second domain of this type (chavistas24.com) remains online.
One of the most interesting domains also hosted on 198.12.150.249 is pancaliente.info. At first glance this is a Venezuela
focused news and information site. Unlike all of the other sites hosted on this IP that we could verify, this site appeared to
have a large volume of original content that was presented in a news format.
Nevertheless, the site has many links to the other domains. While the domain registration is currently masked, the
registration e-mail is shared with other phishing sites.
The registration can be verified, although pancaliente.info’s WHOIS has since been made private.
Image 26: Pan caliente website as it appeared in October 2015
Examining more closely, much of the content seems to be intended to appeal to Venezuelans at home and abroad who
oppose the Partido Socialista Unido de Venezuela (PSUV: the party of Hugo Chavez). Some of the reports are intriguing
because they describe private documents seemingly obtained by the site (and of questionable veracity), but without
further information about their origins.
In other cases, the site has published purportedly “leaked” documents. Many of these stories are critical of individuals
linked to the PSUV. Many reports also concern the “Expat” community of Venezuelans who oppose the regime from
overseas, especially the diaspora in Spain.
PanCaliente is referenced elsewhere online, such as an apparently leaked document hosted on Slideshare. Some of their
reports also appear to have been excerpted or cited by other online news sites.
Although there seems to be a great deal of content, PanCaliente’s articles do not have bylines. While the site is linked
https://citizenlab.org/2015/12/packrat-report/ 26/40
2015/12/11 Packrat: Seven Years of a South American Threat Actor
with a very active Twitter account (https://twitter.com/pancalienteve), the associated Facebook profile
(facebook.com/pancalienteok) is sparse. The WayBack Machine makes it clear that PanCaliente has only recently
become active.
Image 27: The Wayback Machine on Pan caliente
Interestingly, some of the first reports published on the site appear to have been written when the site was being demoed
as having a different name and identity “Venezuela365.com.”
Image 28: Early logos, still visible in the website’s directory structure
https://citizenlab.org/2015/12/packrat-report/ 27/40
2015/12/11 Packrat: Seven Years of a South American Threat Actor
Image 29: Variation on the current PanCaliente logo
The many images of this alternate logo as it went through its iterations are publicly visible. Also still online is at least one
report that still refers to the site as venezuela365. Interestingly, that first ‘report’ refers to “secret” information,
including reproducing a purported cheque, without explaining its provenance.
http://pancaliente[.]info/los-negocios-secretos-de-leocenis-garcia-y-gonzalo-tirado/
“García demandó a Tirado en un corte de Miami cuando el empresario le dio al periodista un cheque falso al cual
Venezuela365 tuvo acceso.”
The source of this page also contains links to the now-defunct venezuela365.com
“http://venezuela365.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/tirado-g-300×169.jpg“
An identically named image is now hosted on pancaliente.info, in an identical directory.
The venezuela365.com domain was registered behind DomainsByProxy, however previous WHOIS names Sistekon Corp
as a prior registrant. Sistekon Corporation seems to now be defunct, although its information is still on archive.org, and
indicates that it develops IT software as well as selling various security solutions. Given that the domain expired in 2013, but
was re-registered in 2014 at around the same time as pancaliente.info, the link may be coincidental.
We found no evidence that PanCaliente or venezuela365 was ever used to seed malware or conduct phishing attempts,
either directly, or as a pretext for malicious content.
5.2 And Pro-Chavez: Chavistas 24.com
The domain, chavistas24.com, which seems to refer to supporters of former Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez, also has
a range of content that is apparently supportive of the party.
Image 30: Screenshot of Chavistas24.com showing articles tagged “Traitors of the Revolution”on
Chavistas24.com
https://citizenlab.org/2015/12/packrat-report/ 28/40
2015/12/11 Packrat: Seven Years of a South American Threat Actor
Chavistas24.com similarly has an associated Twitter account that pushes out tweets, mostly referencing stories published
on the website.
https://twitter.com/chavistas24/
Image 31: The Chavistas 24 Twitter Feed
We found no evidence that chavistas24.com was used to phish or send malware, either directly, or as a pretext for
malicious content or messages.
5.3 Seeking Angry Police?
Packrat appears to be interested in attracting dissatisfied members of Ecuador’s National Police, and has created a
website (justicia-desvinculados.com) and social media identity built around “Los Desvinculados,” referring to police let
go from Ecuador’s National Police, possibly in the context of corruption inquiries. The website, which also includes a
login section, contains news and highly critical reports about the Ecuadorian government.
Ecuador’s police have previously been involved in protests over benefit cuts that some have seen as one of the
strongest threats to Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa’s rule.
https://citizenlab.org/2015/12/packrat-report/ 29/40
2015/12/11 Packrat: Seven Years of a South American Threat Actor
Image 32: Screenshot of Los Desvinculados website
The social media component of this creation, including a Twitter page of the same name (twitter.com/justdesvincula2)
further develops the identity.
https://citizenlab.org/2015/12/packrat-report/ 30/40
2015/12/11 Packrat: Seven Years of a South American Threat Actor
Image 33: Screenshot of Desvinculados Twitter page
As with the two other operations described in this section, we have been unable to identify malware or phishing
associated directly or indirectly with Justicia Desvinculados.