RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TOP MANAGEMENT
group-ib.com
Hygiene Phishing and social engineering have remained the most popular vectors of initial comproand hygiene mise. Ordinary employees hold their defenses behind their monitors and inboxes every day.
Establishing a password policy and conducting training and social engineering testing will help
protect against phishing and prevent corporate data leaks.
Trust MSS providers Product innovations aren’t slowing down their momentum, and technical skills are always
and partners needed to ensure information security. Therefore, more companies are delegating part or most
of their information security tasks to MSS providers. Doing so not gets best-in-class technical
specialists at your side without hiring but also is beneficial for budget allocation.
Keep in touch with To raise awareness of new threats, you need to go beyond professional trainings and start a diayour competitors logue with colleagues from your industry. Competitors could become your partners in the fight
against common enemies: APTs, pro-state groups, ransomware attacks, and others.
Checkups and cyber Just as people need regular checkups, so do companies need to regularly assess their security
risk insurance infrastructures. Nowadays, this applies not only to infrastructure but also to teams and processes. The standard set of checkups should be supplemented with a third-party audit as well
as an assessment of potential retrospective compromise. It is important to note that the above
does not negate the importance of cyber risk insurance, especially when you are responsible for
the information of your customers and employees.
Measuring
performance
group-ib.com
Information security is becoming more expensive for companies, which is why many are
requesting that the effectiveness of solutions be measured and compared. The saturated
market dictates the new rules: solutions should not just be modern and efficient but also
advantageous for businesses. Comparing costs to the effectiveness of a tool in its pilot stage
also requires defining business metrics that differ in one way or another from the size of the
company and its infrastructure. Analysts from Gartner, Forrester, and other analytical agencies
handle the market's requests to collect performance measurements and their metrics.
page 69 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021

→ Recommendations for top management

Recommendations for how to set up your technical
infrastructure and train your information security team

— Hunt for traces of covert activity
by threat actors in the company
network. This helps stop an ongoing
attack for which the initial stages were
overlooked by the organization's security controls.
— Implement a Malware Detonation
Platform that allows for suspicious
files and links to be run in an isolated
environment, be analyzed in detail,
and subsequently blocked if found
to be malicious.
— Use a Threat intelligence solution
to identify threats, leaks, breaches,
and other hacker activity before they
can harm you.
— Back up regularly. Any backups must
be separated from the main network
so that they cannot be accessed
by threat actors if administrator
accounts become compromised.
— Conduct round-the-clock monitoring
of information security events and
be prepared to promptly respond.
Unfortunately, it is not always possible to detect attacks at early stages:
threat actors continuously improve their
skills and implement new techniques
to gain access to networks of various
size. Detecting traces of compromise
at different stages of the cyber kill chain
requires an ia ntegrated approach. This
approach involves creating a centralized
data source about what is happening
in the network infrastructure and isolat
ing compromised hosts. XDR solutions
can be used for these purposes, as they
are able to detect malicious activity

— Each incident should be matched with
its level of complexity. Incidents that
require analysis should be investigated, the causes and consequences should be identified, and the
problems that caused the incident
should be fixed. For the second level
of response, it is important to have
a third-party incident response team
with pre-negotiated agreement that
can assist in stopping a complex
targeted attack.
— Make sure that your team has the
necessary skills to perform threat
hunting and collect threat intelligence.
— Conduct regular digital hygiene train-
ing for employees.
— Perform security assessments
in a format that simulates real-life
actions taken by cybercriminals. This
approach will help identify weaknesses in the company's IT infrastructure and determine whether
the company is ready to combat real
cyberattacks.
at various layers, regardless of the tactics, techniques, and procedures used
by threat actors.
Reducing cyber attacker dwell time also
requires not only high-quality response
but also proactive analysis, which can
be carried out both by the organization's employees with relevant competencies and by outsourced experts.
The latter speeds up the investigation
and improves the quality of analysis
significantly.

— Conduct periodic fraud risk assessments to see if your solutions and procedures can defend against existing
attacks and fraudulent schemes that
use different attack channels. Identify
the main risk factors, and start from
existing and possible problems when
choosing a fraud protection solution.
— Create a layered protection for your
web portal using not only transaction
analysis, but also solutions for session
analysis of behavior and devices,
and unveil fraudulent operations that
occur on your web channel. Leave
only legitimate users on your portal
and take actions regarding blocking
suspicious users or bots.
Both reactive and proactive approaches
require not only relevant competencies
but also a significant amount of cyber
threat intelligence data. Strategic,
operational and tactical threat data help
organizations identify attackers during
the ongoing analysis and detect signs
of compromise at the earliest stages.

Incident Response team capabilities

Log analysis
Firewall, Proxy,
NetFlow,
AV, EDR,
EventLog, etc

Malware Endpoint digital Cyber Threat Infrastructure
analysis forensics Intelligence Manipulation and
Maintenance
Windows (Active
Directory), Unix/
Linux, hypervisor,
cloud

Incident
management
Risk management,
Crisis management

Cyber professions of the future are
jobs built on skills that are in demand today. Such professions are not taught 
as part of traditional curricula.
group-ib.com
1. Digital Forensics Analyst
Windows Forensics, Network
Forensics, Memory Forensics,
Forensics Data Recovery
Mobile Forensics
2. Incident Responder
 3. Threat Hunter
4. Malware Analyst
5. Threat Intelligence Analyst
page 70 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021