Component retrieval
We also observed adversaries leveraging CDNs for the retrieval of additional malicious
content during and after the initial infection process occurs. In many malware infections
nowadays, the initial executable or script delivered to victims is the first part of a multistage infection process that often includes the delivery of additional binaries that function
as modules to carry out various portions of the malware's overall functionality.
We observed several instances of these CDNs being used to host malicious binaries that
are pulled down during various phases of the infection process. Various examples of this
behavior can be identified across malware repositories. For example, simply searching for
samples that reach out to the Discord CDN results in almost 20,000 results in VirusTotal.
This technique was frequently used across malware distribution campaigns associated
with RATs, stealers and other types of malware typically used to retrieve sensitive
information from infected systems. In one example, the first stage payload was
responsible for retrieving an ASCII blob from the Discord CDN as shown in the
screenshot below.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2021/04/collab-app-abuse.html 9/19
4/8/2021 Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: Sowing Discord: Reaping the benefits of collaboration app abuse
The data that is retrieved from the Discord CDN is then converted and the final payload is
injected into a remote process, in this case created from "C:\Program Files (x86)\Internet
Explorer\ieinstal.exe".
The final malware in this instance was Remcos, a commercially available RAT that is
frequently used by attackers to gain unauthorized access to systems.
As is common with Remcos infections, the malware communicated with a C2 and
exfiltrated data via an attacker-controlled DDNS server. The attackers achieved
persistence through the creation of registry run entries to invoke the malware following
system restarts.
Another example of this behavior was observed across AsyncRAT campaigns. In this
instance, the initial malware downloader took the form of a Microsoft Word document
titled "Word_Nitro_Kodlari", likely purporting to be associated with Discord Nitro codes
— access to a premium version of the service — a common theme across the various
malware campaigns we analyzed. In this case, the Word document did not contain any
visible contents when opened, but contained embedded macros.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2021/04/collab-app-abuse.html 10/19
4/8/2021 Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: Sowing Discord: Reaping the benefits of collaboration app abuse
The Word document contains a macro that executes when the document is opened. This
macro is shown below.
This macro deobfuscates and executes PowerShell that is responsible for retrieving the
next stage payload.
In this case, the payload was AsyncRAT hosted within the Discord CDN. An example of
the payload retrieval can be found in the screenshot below:
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2021/04/collab-app-abuse.html 11/19
4/8/2021 Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: Sowing Discord: Reaping the benefits of collaboration app abuse
Another way that we've seen Discord abused is payloads being retrieved from threat
actors leveraging active exploitation of vulnerabilities. One of the larger botnets that is
active today is Mirai, which is constructed primarily of internet-of-things (IoT) devices
that overwhelmingly run Linux. This botnet is well known and has been associated with a
variety of DDoS and other campaigns. Mirai may be the most well known, but they are
not the only botnet or threat operating in this space, including Qbot. This IoT variant of
Qbot behaves much like other IoT malicious threats providing capabilities to conduct
DDoS attacks, download additional payloads, or be used as processing power for things
like SSH brute forcing.
We recently saw an uptick in what appeared to be Mirai activity, but upon further
inspection, it was actually the IoT-focused QBot variant that affects multiple operating
systems. The piece that drew our attention was where the x86 version was being stored.
These types of commands should look familiar to anyone who has been hunting Mirai
activity and is consistent with the other campaigns we've seen before that have been
taking advantage of an unauthenticated command execution vulnerability in YARN. What
makes this applicable to our current investigation is yet another abuse of Discord to share
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2021/04/collab-app-abuse.html 12/19
4/8/2021 Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: Sowing Discord: Reaping the benefits of collaboration app abuse
or distribute malware, in this case the x86 version of Qbot. This shows yet another avenue
adversaries can take advantage of Discord to distribute malware, even to non-standard
operating systems like Linux, and more specifically, IoT devices.