Context
The targeted HRDs have been openly speaking out about human rights violations in the
country. Recently, eight called for the release of 11 prominent activists arrested two years
ago in relation to the protests and violence at Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra, a state in
south-west India. One of the targets is not directly linked to this case, but has been vocal
in calling for the release of GN Saibaba, a disabled academic jailed in Maharashtra.
The Bhima Koregaon Case
On 31 December 2017, activists organized a public event in Bhima Koregaon, Maharashtra. The following day, violence erupted between Dalits and Hindu nationalists. Po-
lice claim that activists at the event allegedly instigated the violence through inflammatory speeches.The police allegedly found evidence of other criminal activities as well. In
2018, the Maharashtra Police arrested nine activists including Sudha Bharadwaj,
Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona
Wilson, Vernon Gonsalves and Varavara Rao. The subsequent charge sheets filed by the
police accuse the HRDs of terror-related activities. In February 2020, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case from the Maharashtra police after the newly-elected Maharashtra Government raised doubts about the police investigation and
signalled a probe against the officials. In March 2020, the Supreme Court of India denied anticipatory bail applications of two other activists, Gautam Navlakha and Anand
Teltumbde, who were also charged in the same case. They were both arrested on 14
April 2020. The case relies almost entirely on digital evidence obtained from the arrested activists’ devices. In a breach of due process, some materials found on their devices
were also released to the media in an effort to smear the activists.
The arrest of the eleven HRDs is an egregious example of how Indian authorities are
clamping down on dissent and activism. These activists have been charged under various
penal provisions and the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), an antiterror law that violates several international human rights standards and circumvents fair
trial guarantees. It is also routinely used to intimidate HRDs, journalists, activists and
students through arbitrary arrests and prolonged detention. These 11 activists are
currently imprisoned and rights groups, including Amnesty International India, have
demanded their release.
https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/research/2020/06/india-human-rights-defenders-targeted-by-a-coordinated-spyware-operation/ 2/16
6/16/2020 India: Human Rights Defenders Targeted by a Coordinated Spyware Operation | Amnesty International
The attempts at unlawful surveillance outlined in this blog are not the first time that
activists and HRDs have been targeted with malware in India. In October 2019,
Facebook’s WhatsApp revealed that NSO Group, a surveillance tool vendor, had exploited
a zero-day vulnerability on their platform to target 1400 individuals earlier in the year. A
zero-day vulnerability is a security flaw in software which is unknown to the vendor or
developer. In collaboration with Citizen Lab, WhatsApp revealed that more than 100 of
those targeted were HRDs, activists, journalists, across numerous countries and notified
them of the breach. Subsequent reports revealed that at least 22 of the 100 were activists,
lawyers, and scholars, including many HRDs who have been involved in advocating for
the release of the 11 activists. NSO Group says that it sells its products only to
“government intelligence and law enforcement agencies”.