impose substantial
malware, tens of thousands of Saudi Aramco computers
were compromised, causing tens to hundreds of mil## lions of dollars in damage. One group, self-identified as U.S. allies.
the Cutting Sword of Justice, claimed responsibility for
the attack, which overwrote the hard drives of Aramco
computers with the image of a burning American flag, causing embarrassment to the
company. Unlike the cyber operations conducted against Iran by foreign entities, the
retaliatory attacks carried out by Tehran sought maximum visibility.
Initial analysis of the incident found that Shamoon was likely inspired by the Wiper malware that had targeted Iran in April 2012, given both destroyed stored data as a method of
sabotage. Tehran was potentially motivated by retaliation for cyber operations against its
oil production infrastructure. Shamoon’s message appeared clear: Iran may not always be
able to defend itself against more advanced cyber capabilities, but it can impose substantial
retaliatory costs against U.S. allies.
The tit-for-tat cycle of covert destructive attacks and symbolic retaliation seen with
Shamoon and Ababil reflects Iranian security tactics witnessed in offline hostilities.
Between 2010 and 2012, for example, several Iranian nuclear scientists were assassinated
under mysterious circumstances, allegedly by the United States or Israel. [82] In apparent
retaliation, Tehran attempted, unsuccessfully, to assassinate Israeli officials in unexpected
places like Georgia, India, and Thailand. This cycle, a recurrent theme in Iran’s covert
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    33
actions, showed Tehran’s ability to learn from attacks and retaliate in a similar fashion,
providing a potential framework for understanding its signaling and motivations in conducting disruptive cyber operations. [83]
Compared to Iran’s other adversaries (namely the United States and Israel), Saudi governmental and economic institutions have yet to sufficiently implement systems and protocols
to increase national cybersecurity. Iranian actors have targeted a broad range of economic,
military, and political institutions in Saudi Arabia—including Saudi Aramco and its foreign
partners, the King Faisal Foundation, the Ministries of Commerce and Foreign Affairs,
the Saudi Stock Exchange, and even Saudi Arabian human rights advocates. Researchers
have documented multiple cases in which Saudi companies and organizations were compromised, in one event leading to the exfiltration of vast sums of archival proprietary data
spanning multiple years from one industrial development corporation. [84]
Weak Saudi cyber defenses have not only made the country vulnerable to Iranian coercion but also made Riyadh a soft target for Tehran’s retaliation against destructive cyber
operations performed by third countries. If Iran cannot cause significant damage to
the United States during times of conflict, then damaging the economic institutions of
American allies will suffice.
The campaign of coercive pressure continues as well: the Saudi Ministry of Defense and
other networks sustained DDoS attacks at the same time as the attack on the embassy. [85]
When the Shamoon malware agent used in the Aramco incident reappeared in an
updated form (labeled as Shamoon 2 by researchers) from November 2016 to January
2017, it destroyed databases and files belonging to both the government and private
sector, including the General Authority of Civil Aviation, the Ministry of Labor, the
Saudi Central Bank, and natural resource extraction companies. [86] Shamoon 2 contained
references to Yemen and overwrote the victims’ hard drives with an image of the drowned
Syrian refugee child Alan Kurdi, once again signaling the attacks were retaliation for
Saudi policies in Syria and Yemen. [87]