New Year’s campaign
Some of the spear phishing campaigns are smaller in scale and are focused on specific targets. For example, on
January 1, 2013 a global energy research company was targeted.
A wave of spear phishing emails were sent from two Freemailer accounts to 291 individuals at the targeted
company. All receiving email addresses started with a letter between G and R, covering half of the alphabet.
Whether there was a second wave of emails using the other half of the alphabet or whether the attackers only
got their hands on part of the address book remains unknown.
All emails had either the subject line “2013,Obama QE4! Merry Christmas !” or “2013,Obama QE4!”. It is
common to see spear phishing attacks take place around holidays, as people are receiving more emails during
these times and are less likely to perform due diligence while opening them. All of the emails contained the same
Trojan.Dropper disguised as an attachment with the filename AVP.dll.
The malware itself drops a malicious Downloader “clbcatq.dll” into a newly created “wuauclt” directory, posing
as Windows update and taking advantage of the DLL search order hijack weakness in order to load the malicious
code in Windows. The same family of dropper has been used in previous targeted attacks against other sectors,
indicating that a group with multiple interests is behind the attacks. The back door provided full access to the
compromised computers.
A week later, on January 7, 2013, the group attacked the same company again. Seventy emails were sent to
58 individuals using either “2012-13 NFL Playoffs Schedule” or “Re: 2012-13 NFL Playoffs Schedule” as a
subject line. In this wave, the attackers used a similar AVP.dll to the one used before. In some of the emails, an
additional CHM file with an old exploit was used in an effort to maximize the chances of a successful infection.
After this second wave, the attack ceased. It is unknown if the attackers successfully retrieved the information
they were seeking, if they installed other back door Trojans or gained passwords that allowed them to directly
access the computers, or if they have given up on the target.