Breaking down NOBELIUM’s latest early-stage toolset
microsoft.com /security/blog/2021/05/28/breaking-down-nobeliums-latest-early-stage-toolset
May 28, 2021
As we reported in earlier blog posts, the threat actor NOBELIUM recently intensified an email-based attack that it has been operating
and evolving since early 2021. We continue to monitor this active attack and intend to post additional details as they become available.
In this blog, we highlight four tools representing a unique infection chain utilized by NOBELIUM: EnvyScout, BoomBox, NativeZone,
and VaporRage. These tools have been observed being used in the wild as early as February 2021 attempting to gain a foothold on a
variety of sensitive diplomatic and government entities.
As part of this blog, Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC) is releasing an appendix of indicators of compromise (IOCs) for the
community to better investigate and understand NOBELIUM’s most recent operations. The NOBELIUM IOCs associated with this
activity are available in CSV on the MSTIC GitHub. This sophisticated NOBELIUM attack requires a comprehensive incident response
to identify, investigate, and respond. Get the latest information and guidance from Microsoft at https://aka.ms/nobelium. We have also
outlined related alerts in Microsoft 365 Defender, so that security teams can check to see if activity has been flagged for investigation.
Each of the NOBELIUM tools discussed in this blog is designed for flexibility, enabling the actor to adapt to operational challenges over
time. While its technical specifics are not unprecedented, NOBELIUM’s operational security priorities have likely influenced the design
of this toolset, which demonstrate preferable features for an actor operating in potentially high-risk and high-visibility environments.
These attacker security priorities are:
Use of trusted channels: BoomBox is a uniquely developed downloader used to obtain a later-stage payload from an actorcontrolled Dropbox account. All initial communications leverage the Dropbox API via HTTPS.
Opportunity for restraint: Consistent with other tools utilized by NOBELIUM, BoomBox, VaporRage, and some variants of
NativeZone conduct some level of profiling on an affected system’s environment. MSTIC is currently unaware if these tools benefit
from any server-side component. It is plausible that this design may allow NOBELIUM to selectively choose its targets and gain a
level of understanding of potential discovery should the implant be run in environments unfamiliar to the actor.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/05/28/breaking-down-nobeliums-latest-early-stage-toolset/ 1/28
6/1/2021 Breaking down NOBELIUM’s latest early-stage toolset - Microsoft Security
Ambiguity: VaporRage is a unique shellcode loader seen as the third-stage payload. VaporRage can download, decode, and
execute an arbitrary payload fully in-memory. Such design and deployment patterns, which also include staging of payloads on a
compromised website, hamper traditional artifacts and forensic investigations, allowing for unique payloads to remain
undiscovered.
NOBELIUM is an actor that operates with rapid operational tempo, often leveraging temporary infrastructure, payloads, and methods to
obfuscate their activities. We suspect that NOBELIUM can draw from significant operational resources that are often showcased in their
periodic campaigns. Since December, the security community has identified a growing collection of payloads attributed to the actor,
including the GoldMax, GoldFinder, and Sibot malware identified by Microsoft, as well as TEARDROP (FireEye), SUNSPOT
(CrowdStrike), Raindrop (Symantec) and, most recently, FLIPFLOP (Volexity).
Despite growing community visibility since the exposure of the SolarWinds attack in late 2020, NOBELIUM has continued to target
government and diplomatic entities across the globe. We anticipate that as these operations progress, NOBELIUM will continue to
mature their tools and tactics to target a global audience.
While this post focuses on a single wave of the campaign comprised of the mentioned four malware families, it also highlights variations
in the campaign wherein methodologies were altered per wave. The list of indicators in the appendix expands beyond this single wave.