up to 80%
of pirate video streaming services
in Russia and other post-Soviet
countries are provided with content
from CDNs
CDNs play a key role in online piracy. These services aggregate
pirated content, optimize its delivery to the end user, and help
video streaming services make money through partner programs.
CDNs provide content to up to 80% of pirate video streaming services in Russia and other post-Soviet countries.
CDNs are not hosting services or communications service providers. Instead, they use server capacities provided by other (legitimate) Internet service providers.
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Introduction to video piracy 10
The main problem that copyright holders face when interacting
with CDNs is that their complaints are ignored and their demands
are met on paper only. In particular, many CDNs create links for
specific users or devices using tokens. Moreover, these links often
function for a limited time only. Complaints about such links are
ineffective because the links change regularly, while illegal content
continues to be distributed. CDNs take no measures against violators, thereby encouraging unlawful activity.
Legal hosting services whose servers are used by CDNs usually
refuse to handle the issue and evade responsibility by giving formal
replies that given links are unavailable.
At the moment, the main CDNs are:
            - Collaps

         - HDVB

          - VideoCDN

            - Kodik

           - Videoframe

          - Bazon

           - Ustore

            - Alloha

            - Protonvideo

The specific characteristics of second-wave CDNs are:
             - frequent changes of technical domains and IP pools;

              - use of geographically distributed infrastructures;

             - duplicate and reserve content delivery channels, which are usually rented from various providers.

A number of the largest streaming services (e.g. Hdrezka) have
their own servers designed to store and deliver video content.
In most cases, however, these servers are not used by other
resources since they do not involve partner programs and therefore bring no profit.
Jolly Roger’s patrons. Group-IB exposes financial crime
network of online pirates in developing countries
© Group−IB
Introduction to video piracy 11