Targeted attacks and cyber espionage
The greatest source of risk in cyberspace emanates from groups with the resources and commitment to
relentlessly target a company, a government agency, an organization, or even an individual until they
succeed in breaking in and taking what the victim values most. This usually involves an unauthorized
person gaining access to a network and staying there undetected for a long period of time via a targeted
attack. Typically, the purpose of a targeted attack is to monitor target systems and exfiltrate data from
these, as opposed to causing damage or disruption. Therefore, there is an innate connection between
traditional espionage and targeted attacks. One can say that a targeted attack evolved from the tradecraft
of espionage. The difficulty very often lies in detecting targeted attacks in a timely manner and even more
in pinpointing attackers’ identities and their financial backers, understanding their motivations, and where
the attacks are coming from.
This is also the case when it comes to political espionage carried out in the cyberrealm. Any espionage
activity does not usually go after monetary gain and it is very difficult to attribute it to a certain group or
nation-state. The attackers can be anything from self-anointed cyber units with a political cause to cyber
capable separatist groups, state-sponsored hackers, or actual covert intelligence agents. Many times, such
instances of cyber espionage are attributed to nation-states because they are the most likely to have the
greatest motivation, they have the most to gain, and they are most capable of funding and maintaining
cyber-espionage efforts without being detected.
When we look at the Rocket Kitten case, we are not dealing with cybercriminals that conduct corporate
espionage to obtain access to sensitive documents or resell confidential information and intellectual
property. This is an obvious case of politically inspired or motivated espionage.
5 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2
SECTION 2