IRAN’S CYBER THREAT ENVIRONMENT
Offensive cyber operations have become a core tool of Iranian statecraft, providing
Tehran less risky opportunities to gather information and retaliate against perceived
enemies at home and abroad.

Just as Iran uses proxies to project its regional power, Tehran often masks its cyber
operations using proxies to maintain plausible deniability. Yet there are clear indications that such operations are conducted by Iranians and frequently can be linked
to the country’s security apparatus, namely the Ministry of Intelligence and Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps.

1

Iran’s cyber capabilities appear to be indigenously developed, arising from local
universities and hacking communities. This ecosystem is unique, involving diverse
state-aligned operators with differing capabilities and affiliations. Over the decade
that Iranians have been engaged in cyber operations, threat actors seemingly arise
from nowhere and operate in a dedicated manner until their campaigns dissipate,
often due to their discovery by researchers.

Though Iran is generally perceived as a third-tier cyber power—lacking the capabilities of China, Russia, and the United States—it has effectively exploited the lack of
preparedness of targets inside and outside Iran. Just as Russia’s compromise of Democratic Party institutions during the 2016 U.S. presidential election demonstrated that
information warfare can be conducted through basic tactics, Iran’s simple means have
exacted sometimes enormous political and financial costs on unsuspecting adversaries.
The same Iranian actors responsible for espionage against the private sector also conduct surveillance of human rights defenders. These attacks on Iranian civil society often foreshadow the tactics and tools that will be employed against other targets and
better describe the risks posed by Iranian cyberwarfare.
Through technical forensics of cyber attacks, researchers documenting these campaigns can provide a unique window into the worldview and capabilities of Iran’s
security services and how it responds to a rapidly changing technological and geopolitical environment.