Area 2: Incident / crisis management and clinical and services continuity planning at the HSE and sample site hospitals and CHOs
FA2.KF3 Clinical and Services Impact Analysis
did not consistently inform clinical and services
continuity workarounds
The Clinical and Services Impact Analysis [193] (referred
to in standards as a Business Impact Analysis)
identifies critical processes, and the associated
people, premise, systems and infrastructure, which
must be maintained to ensure a minimum viable
organisation during an incident or crisis. Failure to
conduct a comprehensive Clinical and Services
Impact Analysis process hinders the development of
adequate workarounds to maintain critical operations.
Standardised or formalised Clinical and Services
Impact Analysis processes were not evident at HSE
centre, support services, or sample hospital and CHO
sites. Even those sample sites where the clinical and
services continuity posture was proactive and mature
(e.g. Site Workshop 11), a Clinical and Services Impact
Analysis had not been conducted. Some hospital and
CHO response teams reactively defined their recovery
priorities during the initial phase of the attack because
there was no Clinical and Services Impact Analysis.
This diverted effort from the response towards tasks
which should have been completed in advance of
the cyber attack, eg., defining a schedule of systems
for recovery based on pre-agreed Recovery Time
Objectives (“RTOs”) and Recovery Point Objectives
(“RPOs”). Several interviewees noted that in the
absence of a Clinical and Services Impact Analysis
the early prioritisation scheme was driven by the OES
list, before advancing to an approach that focused on
clinical risks, [194] delaying the recovery of patient critical
services (see also finding FA2.KF17) . The extent of the
initial disruption and maintenance of essential services
varied significantly across the sample sites. There
was also significant variance in the effectiveness and
availability of workarounds or recovery strategies to
ensure consistency of critical patient services.
193 ISO 22317 Societal security - Business continuity management systems - Guidelines for business impact analysis (BIA)
194 Site Workshop 8 (Hospital B)
69 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
FA2.KR3.1 Establish and embed a clear
and consistent approach to Clinical and
Services Impact Analysis across the HSE to
inform recovery prioritisation (see strategic
recommendation 4.1 in Section 4)
To ensure a standardised organisation-wide approach
to the Clinical and Services Impact Analysis process,
the Executive Sponsor for clinical and services
continuity at the HSE and each HG/hospital and CHO
should:
• Establish and embed a formal Clinical and
Services Impact Analysis process, with clear
ownership at each level, including the criteria for
the “RTOs” [195] and “RPOs” [196] ;
• Ensure the results of the Clinical and Services
Impact Analysis are formally reviewed and
approved on a periodic basis, by senior
management, and following any significant
systems/process, operational, regulatory or
personnel change.
FA2.KR3.2 Design clinical and services continuity
workarounds, based on the Clinical and Services
Impact Analysis, to enable the HSE to continue
providing critical services while responding to an
incident or crisis (see strategic recommendation
4.2 in Section 4)
The HSE should:
• Design and agree clinical and services continuity
workarounds, for critical processes, with the
agility and governance to be maintained for a
prolonged period, and based on the Clinical and
Services Impact Analysis;
• Assess all workarounds to ensure they do not
pose an unacceptable risk to patient care or to
the HSE through the transfer of data or other
assets between systems;
• Align workarounds for similar systems or
processes across the HSE to improve their
effectiveness and inform a consistent response;
• Reflect the workarounds in the relevant Clinical
and Services Continuity Plan.
FA2.KF4 There was no standardised approach to
clinical and services continuity planning across
the HSE
There is no framework or mechanism in place at the
HSE to ensure that the clinical and services continuity
planning is aligned to the policy objectives. No
integrated and comprehensive clinical and services
continuity planning exists at the HSE. Additionally,
while some hospitals had a level of clinical and
services continuity planning in place, there was
no evidence that this process was consistently
formalised or conducted across sampled HGs,
hospitals or CHOs, to deliver a local clinical and
services continuity capability. [197] Where workarounds
were in place, there was inconsistency in emphasis,
layout and terminology and no evidence that the
determination, adoption and resourcing of those
workarounds had input or steer from the HSE
centrally.
The absence of pre-prepared Clinical and Services
Continuity Plans severely impacted the initial stages
of the response to the cyber attack, as resources
had to be diverted away from the response effort to
compile essential information, create structures and
prioritise services for recovery which should have
been formalised and articulated during a preparatory
phase. [198, 199] Recurring examples given in interviews
of this were construction of call trees, compiling
asset registers, critical service prioritisation and
definition and use of alternative communications
methods. Furthermore, recovery solutions were often
inaccessible as hard copies were not available.
FA2.KR4 Develop and embed consistent Clinical
and Services Continuity Plans at strategic, tactical
and operational levels that align with the Clinical
and Services Impact Analysis (see strategic
recommendation 4.2 in Section 4).
To ensure that Clinical and Services Continuity
Plans are compatible with the recovery objectives,
the HSE should:
• Implement Clinical and Services Continuity Plans
at strategic, tactical and operational levels of the
HSE, HGs/hospitals and CHOs and that they
formally document workarounds and the steps
involved to resume normal operations;
195 Recovery Time Objective (RTO) is the period of time following an incident within which a product and service or an activity is
resumed or resources are recovered (ISO 22300:2021).
196 Recovery Point Objective (RPO) is the point at which information used by an activity is restored to enable the activity to operate on
resumption (ISO 22300:2021)
197 A sample of example plans include: Hospital C Business Continuity Plan Dec 2019, Hospital F Pandemic Preparedness Plan,
Hospital E Internal Emergency Response Plan, Midlands SAP Payroll Business Continuity Plan
198 Site Workshop 11 (Hospital A)
199 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
70 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
• Benchmark the Clinical and Services Continuity
Plan construction against ISO 22331, and ensure
they are compatible with future Sláintecare
objectives; [200]
• Incorporate the testing of these steps into the
clinical and services continuity management
training and exercising schedule/programme (e.g.
through desktop walkthrough of the resumption
procedures to identify any gaps or unforeseen
dependencies);
• Ensure soft and hard copies of Clinical and
Services Continuity Plans are available in
appropriate areas.
FA2.KF5 The HSE did not have an adequate
internal Crisis Management Framework or plans
to support the response to the Conti attack, nor
had they planned for severe but plausible total
loss scenarios
The Major Emergency Management and Incident
Management Frameworks (as well as interim
Emergency Management governance arrangements
published in 2020) have been invoked on multiple
occasions and delivered an agile and effective
response to short term surge demands on health
services. [201,202]
There is an inconsistent and interchangeable use
of the terms ‘major emergency management’ and
‘emergency management’ and ‘crisis management’.
Crisis planning throughout the HSE was focused on
the scenarios which would mobilise major emergency
management teams, such as adverse weather,
pandemic, epidemic, serious accidents and terrorist
action. There was no Crisis Management Plan in
place to guide the HSE’s response to an internal
crisis impacting the HSE itself, rather than an external
crisis such as COVID-19 or Storm Emma; nor has
it developed and exercised scenario-specific plans
for the response to severe disruption scenarios,
(e.g. total loss of premises, systems or people). A
fundamental assumption of these plans is that all
mission critical systems and infrastructure would
remain available to the response teams. The HSE has
not conducted any scenario planning for the total
loss of a facility, system, process or service (see also
finding FA2.KF21) . While risks were noted on the
Corporate Risk Register (especially cyber security
and clinical and services continuity), there was limited
evidence to suggest the HSE undertakes subsequent
scenario planning to:
• Identify potential triggers and escalators for the
worst, best and most likely scenarios per risk;
• identify likely impacts;
• undertake mitigating actions despite the fact that
cyber security and clinical and services continuity
were identified as strategic risks.
Such scenario-specific plans would outline the likely
impacts caused by highly plausible organisational
crises, as well as the key considerations, and
corresponding pre-agreed decisions to guide the
strategic response to those events.
FA2.KR5.1 Design an end-to-end Crisis
Management Framework (integrated with the
existing MEM and IM Frameworks) and overseen
by the HSE Resilience Steering Group (see finding
FA2.KR1.1 and strategic recommendation 4.2 in
Section 4)
The HSE should review the existing incident and
emergency management structures, and the
structures established during the attack and other
recent events (e.g. COVID-19), to establish a new
integrated end-to-end organisation-wide Crisis
Management Framework that is fit-for-purpose across
a wide variety of crisis types. This Framework should
incorporate all resilience disciplines responsible for
implementing organisational preparedness activities
(e.g. emergency/incident/crisis response, and
clinical and services continuity management), and
identify accountable teams/individuals for specific
components, as well as define all levels of response
required during an actual event at strategic, tactical
and operational levels. It should also integrate with
the relevant elements of the organisation-wide Major
Emergency Management and Incident Management
Frameworks.
The Framework should include the following
elements:
• Hierarchy of teams required for response.
Typically this will include three layers operational, tactical and strategic - with
command and control escalating according to the
nature and severity of the incident;
• Defined roles and responsibilities, and decision
making authority, for all those involved in the
identification, escalation, response to and
management of incidents;
• Escalation thresholds and formalised
communication channels;
• Guidance on how and when to invoke response
structure in line with the Incident Classification
and Severity Matrix (see also finding FA2.KF14);
200 ISO 22331 Security and resilience - Business continuity management systems - Guidelines
201 Incident Management Framework 2020
202 A Framework for Major Emergency Management
71 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.
• Agreed touchpoints and interaction between the
HSE, and HGs and CHOs;
• Tools and templates to be used by all responders
(across the HSE, HG and CHO levels) during an
incident (e.g., situation report, classification and
severity matrix, impact assessment, decision and
action logs).
FA2.KR5.2 Design a suite of crisis response
plans and procedures to underpin the Crisis
Management Framework (see strategic
recommendation 4.2 in Section 4)
The HSE should design:
• A Crisis Management Plan providing detailed
roles and responsibilities for key positions in the
NCMT and supporting tactical teams (e.g. HG/
hospital and CHO leadership), including checklists
of activities and considerations, and details of
third party support available;
• A Technical/Operational Coordination Guide
providing the details of how the technical (e.g. IT
Ops) and operational teams (e.g. clinical response
teams) would coordinate and work together.
This includes detailed roles and responsibilities,
information flows, processes, checklists of key
activities and considerations and details of third
party support available;
• Scenario-specific plans providing detailed stepby-step operational guides for specific scenarios
(e.g. analyst response to malware, fire response
plan). The HSE should, using the risks identified
in the Corporate Risk Register, conduct a threat
profile review and readiness assessment to
determine high likelihood, high impact scenarios
and create scenario-specific plans for response.
This should include severe but plausible total loss
scenarios;
• Functional Response Plans providing detailed
function-specific guidance for non-technical
teams, for example a Legal/Regulatory Team and
Communications Team (see recommendation
FA2.KR7);
• Site-Specific Response Plans templates and
guidance, providing resources for standardised
clinical and services continuity and crisis
management planning at sites across the
organisation.