Hunting and defending against Elephant Beetle (a.k.a. “Elefante”)
This research was conducted for the purpose of exposing the Elefante threat group to the public by describing in
detail their modus operandi and detailing their tool arsenal.
The following are specific tactical recommendations that compliment more general security measures that can
protect and hunt against these types of attacks:


Maintain applications and keep operating systems up-to-date, especially on internet-facing servers.


Avoid using clear-text credentials in scripts.


Avoid using the same password for different administrative interfaces on different servers.


Avoid using the ‘xp_cmdshell’ procedure and disable it on MS-SQL servers. Monitor for configuration


changes and usage of ‘xp_cmdshell’.

Monitor on WAR deployments and validate that the packages deployment functionality is included in the

logging policy of the relevant applications.
o In some cases, the application error logs may contain information about exceptions and errors
that are related to the WAR deployment and Web shell access.

Hunt and monitor for presence and creation of suspicious .class file in the WebSphere applications temp

folders, such as:
o .class files that were found under the WebSphere applications temp folders contained web
shells, and some of those that did not had a matching JSP web shell file on the compromised
server, meaning they were likely deleted since they were deployed and used.
o According to IBM documentation [18], WebSphere loads JSP .class files at runtime, from either the
WebSphere Application Server temp directory or from a web module's WEB
INF/classes directory. If the class file does not exist, it will be generated inside the WebSphere
Application temp directory, on the first time that the JSP resource was requested. This means
that the .class creation time is indicative of the ‘.jsp’ file first access.
o .class files can be easily decoded/reflected to show large parts of their original JSP code.


Hunt and monitor for presence and creation of web pages in static resources folders of Web applications.


Monitor for processes that were executed by either web server parent services processes (i.e., ‘w3wp.exe’,


‘tomcat6.exe’) or by database-related processes (i.e., ‘sqlservr.exe’).
o ‘cmd.exe’, ‘powershell.exe’, ‘wmic.exe’ and other code execution-related executables are
highly suspicious.

Implement and verify segregation between DMZ and Internal server. Close monitoring and access control

over these regions is important to delay/stop malicious actors from moving forward after compromising a
web server.

Proactively hunt for Elephant Beetle IOCs and TTPs within the network, based on the MITRE ATT&CK

breakdown and IOC provided below.
18 https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSEQTP_8.5.5/com.ibm.websphere.base.iseries.doc/ae/cweb_jspclassfiles.html
24