Who are the Hidden Lynx group?
The Hidden Lynx group has been in operation since at least 2009 and is most likely a professional organization
that offers a “hackers for hire” service. They have the capability to attack many organizations with concurrently
running campaigns. They operate efficiently and move quickly and methodically. Based on these factors, the
Hidden Lynx group would need to be a sizeable organization made up of between 50 and 100 individuals.
The members of this group are experts at breaching systems. They engage in a two-pronged strategy of mass
exploitation and pay-to-order targeted attacks for intellectual property using two Trojans designed specifically
for each purpose:
- Team Moudoor distributes Backdoor.Moudoor, a customized version of “Gh0st RAT”, for large-scale campaigns

across several industries. The distribution of Moudoor requires a sizeable number of people to both breach
targets and retrieve the information from the compromised networks.
- Team Naid distributes Trojan.Naid, the Trojan found during the Bit9 incident, which appears to be reserved

for more limited attacks against high value targets. This Trojan was leveraged for a special operation during
the VOHO campaign and is probably used by a specific team of highly skilled attackers within the group. This
Trojan was also found as part of “Operation Aurora” in 2009.
Much of the attack infrastructure and tools used during these campaigns originate from network infrastructure
in China. The Hidden Lynx group makes regular use of zero-day exploits and has the ability to rework and
customize exploits quickly. They are methodical in their approach and they display a skillset far in advance of
some other attack groups also operating in that region, such as the Comment Crew (also known as APT1). The
Hidden Lynx group is an advanced persistent threat that has been in operation for at least four years and is
breaking into some of the best-protected organizations in the world. With a zero-day attack already under their
belt in 2013, they continue to operate at the leading edge of targeted attacks.
Page 5