Mail server persistence
SVR actors often target administrator mailboxes in order to acquire further network
information and access. This is likely in an effort to better understand the target
network and obtain further privileges or credentials for persistence and/or lateral
movement.
In one example identified by the NCSC, the actor had searched for authentication
credentials in mailboxes, including passwords and PKI keys (T1552).
In another incident, the actor leveraged access gained from the SolarWinds
campaign to compromise a certificate (T1552.004) issued by Mimecast. The actor
used that access to authenticate a subset of Mimecast’s products with customer
systems (T1199). In this way, the actor was able to abuse the Mimecast Azure app
in order to compromise the final target.
The Mimecast Azure application's default application permissions allowed the
application full access to all mailboxes in the victim organisation's tenant. Once the
actor had gained access to this application, they were able to utilise the applications
permissions in order to extract emails from any mailbox used by the victim
organisation (T1114.002). For reference, the default permissions that were granted
to the Mimecast application can be seen below, along with a definition of the
permission:
“full_access_as_app” under Exchange. This is a highly privileged permission
and allows the app to use Exchange Web services with full access to all
mailboxes.
“User.Read” under Microsoft Graph. Microsoft Graph is an API that allows
custom applications to access Microsoft O365 data and services. This
permission grants the app the ability to read the profile of the signed-in user.
As a result, no further privilege escalation or lateral movement was needed by the
actor to access emails of interest.
Mandiant FireEye has detailed a number of detection and mitigation strategies that
will help organisations proactively harden Microsoft O365 environments against
these techniques. This includes recommendations on how to detect suspicious
modifications in a user’s O365 mailbox permissions.