Overview
The Anomali Threat Research Team has identified an ongoing campaign which it believes is
being conducted by the China-based threat group, Mustang Panda. The team first revealed these
findings on Wednesday, October 2, during Anomali Detect 19, the company’s annual user
conference, in a session titled: “Mustang Panda Riding Across Country Lines.”
CrowdStrike researchers first published information on Mustang Panda in June 2018, after
approximately one year of observing malicious activities that shared unique Tactics, Techniques,
and Procedures (TTPs). [1] This campaign dates back to at least November 2018. The research
does not indicate with absolute certainty which entities are being targeted or the impact the
campaign has had. Based on the lure documents observed by Anomali, we believe that the
following may be targeted:
Individuals interested in the United Nations’ Security Council Committee resolutions
regarding the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL / Da’esh)
Mongolian-based MIAT Airlines
Non-profit China Center (China-Zentrum e.V.); according to its website, this officially
recognized nonprofit organization’s aim is to foster encounters and exchange between
cultures and religions in the West and in China
Targeted countries including but not limited to Germany, Mongolia, Myanmar (Burma),
Pakistan, Vietnam
The Communist Party of Vietnam (CVP)
https://www.anomali.com/blog/china-based-apt-mustang-panda-targets-minority-groups-public-and-private-sector-organizations 1/21
10/8/2019 China-Based APT Mustang Panda Targets Minority Groups, Public and Private Sector Organizations | Anomali
The Shan Tai; a group of people living in Southeast Asia, which Minority Rights Group
International describes as a “minority” in the region, with members who are primarily
Theravada Buddhists
The malicious activity found by Anomali aligns with TTPs, specifically two through six, first
identified by CrowdStrike. The observed TTPs consist of the following:

Use of zip file that contains a “.lnk” (Windows Shortcut) file.
Utilization of double extension trick (sample.doc.lnk) to convince users to open the file.
HTA (HTML Application) with VBScript embedded in the “.lnk” file
VBScript drops payloads and opens a decoy document or PDF to the user.
Usage of PlugX and Cobalt Strike payloads. [2]

The infection chain observed by Anomali researchers in this campaign is shown below in Figure
1.
Figure 1 – Infection vector
We also found similarities in targeting in Mongolia and an NGO. The use of United Nations’
documents regarding activities in the Middle East may also be indicative of think-tank targeting.
Furthermore, the use of PlugX malware also aligns with CrowdStrike’s previous findings of activity
attributed to Mustang Panda. [3]
Analysts’ note: The language capabilities to read some of the lure documents is not available
within Anomali at this time. We would encourage those with the language skills necessary to
analyze the documents further.