7. What is Fanny?
Fanny is a computer worm created by the Equation group in 2008 and distributed
throughout the Middle East and Asia. Fanny used two zero-day exploits, which
were later uncovered during the discovery of Stuxnet. To spread, it used the Stuxnet
LNK exploit and USB sticks. For escalation of privilege, Fanny used a vulnerability
patched by the Microsoft bulletin MS09-025, which from 2009 was also used in
one of the early versions of Stuxnet.
LNK exploit as used by Fanny
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
13
It’s important to point out that these two exploits were used in Fanny before
they were integrated into Stuxnet, indicating the EQUATION group had access
to these zero-days before the Stuxnet group. Actually, the similar type of usage
of both exploits together in different computer worms, at around the same time,
indicates that the EQUATION group and the Stuxnet developers are either the
same or working closely together.
Fanny malware diagram
The main purpose of Fanny appears to have been the mapping of air-gapped
networks. For this, it used a unique USB-based command and control mechanism.
When a USB stick is infected, Fanny creates a hidden storage area on the stick.
If it infects a computer without an internet connection, it will collect basic system
information and save it onto the hidden area of the stick. Later, when a stick
containing hidden information is plugged into an internet-connected computer
infected by Fanny, the data will be scooped up from the hidden area and sent to
the C&C. If the attackers want to run commands on the air-gapped networks, they
can save these commands in the hidden area of the USB stick. When the stick is
plugged into the air-gapped computer, Fanny will recognize the commands and
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
14
execute them. This effectively allowed the Equation group to run commands inside
air-gapped networks through the use of infected USB sticks, and also map the
infrastructure of such networks.
The Fanny C&C server is currently sinkholed by Kaspersky Lab. The victims map
looks as follows:
2014-2015 Fanny sinkhole statistics