RESPONDING TO COVID-19
COVID-19 impacted almost every aspect of American life in 2020: NSA cybersecurity
was no exception. In response to this challenge, NSA engaged in several activities
of significance, to include providing cybersecurity support to the development of a
COVID-19 vaccine, and supporting the Department of Defense’s (DoD) shift to telework.
SUPPORT TO OPERATION WARP SPEED
Operation Warp Speed (OWS) is a whole-of-government effort to accelerate the
development of a COVID-19 vaccine. Led by the DoD and the Department of Health and
Human Services, the OWS team was charged to produce and deliver 300 million doses of
safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines.
In support of OWS, NSA provided cyber threat intelligence, cybersecurity assessments,
and foundational cybersecurity guidance. This included insights on foreign cyber
threats to networks, systems, and data related to the development of a vaccine, as well
as actionable cybersecurity guidance to protect against these threats. Our nation’s vital
vaccine production is safer as a direct result of NSA
contributions.
The most public aspect of
NSA’s support to protection
of the COVID-19 vaccine
development efforts was
a joint product issued
by NSA, Department of
Homeland Security’s Critical
Infrastructure Security
Agency (CISA), and partners
in the United Kingdom
(UK) and Canada to warn
of Advanced Persistent
Threat (APT) 29’s
targeting of organizations
engaged in COVID-19
vaccine research in the
U.S., UK, and Canada.
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 10
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov
APT29, also known as Cozy Bear and other industry identifiers, is almost certainly part
of the Russian Intelligence Services, and is trying to steal information and intellectual
property. APT29’s activities were conducted using custom malware known as WellMess
and WellMail. The joint advisory provided indicators of compromise, detection
techniques, and actionable mitigations, again, knocking back the efforts of the Russians.
CYBERSECURITY FOR TELEWORK
The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in major changes to the way the DoD
operated in 2020, including a rapid shift to secure telework, enabling the
Department to continue with vital missions while a good portion of its
personnel worked from home.
NSA enabled this transition by reviewing and approving 16 solution
registrations based on Commercial Solutions for Classified (CSfC)
capability packages, which layer commercial cryptography to
protect classified data, enabling approximately 100,000 users
to telework securely.
And as more employers across government and industry
alike transitioned to working from home, NSA rapidly released
multiple written products on how to telework securely and
shared them on NSA.gov. These products included an evaluation
of how commonly used commercial capabilities implement security
such as end-to-end encryption within commercial collaboration
services or making source code publicly available.
Due to overwhelming feedback from the broader
cybersecurity community with regards to the
product’s value, it was updated three times after its
release to incorporate additional assessments of new
platforms by customer request.