$6,189,388
the market size in the current period,
H2 2019 to H1 2020 (it has almost
quadrupled)
The United States remains the most often
attacked region. It is worth highlighting,
however, that it has become increasingly
difficult to establish the name and location
of the companies to which access is being
sold without communicating with the cybercriminals involved.
group-ib.com page 28 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Key trends
Nation-state actors sell access to networks
and use ransomware
In an effort to increase their profits,
some state-sponsored groups began
selling access to corporate networks
or even using ransomware like regular
cybercriminals.
Although the message looks suspicious, further investigation revealed
that its author had access to at least
two companies from the list above.
Group-IB experts obtained screenshots
and a video demonstration of LDAP
access as evidence.
In the ad, the seller specifies that
the price of access to each company
is 11 BTC (USD 125,000). Access is sold
directly with partial prepayment: after
the customer has transferred 5 BTC, the
seller provides additional evidence and
the second transaction occurs.
In the message, the author did not
mention all the companies they have
access to, but the cost of accesses
to companies listed explicitly is close
to $5 million.
Another way for state-sponsored
groups to make money is to use
ransomware:
group-ib.com
A perfect example is an ad published
by a user with the nickname nanash
in June 2020. The seller offered access
to many networks, including some
belonging to US government departments, defense contractors (Airbus,
— Taiwanese authorities suspect
that Chinese hackers from APT41
were behind a ransomware attack
on Taiwan's energy and technology
companies in May 2020. The notice
included CPC Corp., a Taiwanese
company that delivers petroleum
products throughout the island,
among the victims. While the attack
did not affect CPC's manufacturing
processes, it prevented customers
from using CPC Corp.'s payment
cards to buy gas. During the wave
of attacks on Taiwanese targets,
threat actors used a new ransom
ware called ColdLock. Malware
analysis revealed similarities
between the program and two known
ransomware families: Freezing and
EDA2, an open-source ransomware
originally created for educational
purposes.
Boeing, etc.), IT giants, and media companies. The figure below contains the
full text of the ad.
Figure 5. A user nicknamed nanash offering access
to various companies
— The hacker group Lazarus has
resumed developing ransomware.
The fact was brought to light during
attacks on European companies
involving ransomware called VHD
Ransomware. The hackers gained
access through a vulnerable VPN
gateway, obtained administrator
privileges, and installed the Dacls
backdoor. They moved across the
victim's network and encrypted
files with a combination of AES-256
in ECB mode and RSA-2048.
— Another group of Chinese hackers,
IronTiger, was behind the attack
involving HybirdRansom ransomware
against companies in the AsiaPacific region in the fall of 2019 and
the spring of 2020. The ransomware
has three components that consequently launch each other to lock
the machine and encrypt file: Locker,
Loader, and Cryptor.
page 29 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021 → Key trends
Compromised hosts by time (2019-2020)
Large companies under increasing threat from massive hacks
from GoDaddy and 247.ai also used
CVE‑2019-10149 (Exim) to install an SSH
backdoor. For several months of activity,
the group infected 80,000 servers.
As mentioned above, one of the main
ways to gain access to corporate networks is to conduct brute-force attacks
on remote access interfaces (RDP, SSH,
VPN). How effective such an attack
is will determine how many companies
will be compromised as a result and how
much money the fraudsters will make.
Another key change is the emergence
of new types of botnets. Their main
purpose is to help perform distributed
brute-force attacks from a large number
of infected devices, including servers.
In the past, massive attacks did not
cause serious damage to large companies. This was because brute-force
attacks or exploiting vulnerabilities
in widespread software led to their
infrastructure being used to distribute
or manage malicious code, mine cryptocurrencies, conduct DDoS attacks,
or proxy traffic.
However, the market for the sale
of access to corporate networks, the
number of ransomware attacks, and APT
group activity have all increased, so the
cost of an error on a company’s external
perimeter has surged as well.
Ten out of 15 ransomware affiliate
programs focus on brute-force attacks
on RDP. Three programs actively exploit
vulnerabilities in VPN services.
APT groups performed similar actions.
For example, APT29 (aka Cozy Bear)
actively exploited the following vulnerabilities with public exploits:
— CVE-2019-19781 (Citrix)
— CVE-2019-11510 (Pulse Secure)
— CVE-2018-13379 (FortiGate)
— CVE-2019-9670 (Zimbra)
The APT group BlackEnergy (aka
Sandworm) exploited CVE-2019-10149
(a vulnerability in the Exim mail server)
to install an SSH backdoor.
Ordinary criminal groups carried
out similar actions. For example, the
group Clownz responsible for leaks
Ivanushk23
kilobyte
Paid
registration
37 posts
Joined
10/17/18
group-ib.com
Brute-force botnet
After 1+ year of work, I want to announce a new
distributed bruteforce/scanner.
Hey friends,
After one year of work, I'm happy to present a distributed
brute-force scanner.
The distributed scanner/ bruteforcer is a software that
distributes tasks to several computers to scan/brute-force
simultaneously. This speeds up the process significantly.
Can the solutions be used on computers found?
Yes, when using a module rootkit.
Figure 6. Example of the sale of a service based on a bruteforcer,
a distributed scanner for establishing passwords
page 30 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021 → Key trends
Growing activity of post-exploitation frameworks
Conducting a successful attack
on a corporate network requires tools
for lateral movement and privilege
escalation. The growth of the access
sales market has led to post-exploitation frameworks being used more
often. Such frameworks are used
by ransomware affiliates and operators, organized crime groups, and
state-sponsored actors.
Group-IB regularly detects new infrastructure for various post-exploitation
frameworks. From H2 2019 to H1 2020,
more than 10,000 hosts used by such
frameworks were discovered. In con
trast, 6,000 such hosts were discovered
in the same period last year.
Threat actor Cobalt Strike Metasploit Covenant CrackMapExec PoshC2 Koadic
Ryuk
REvil
MegaCortex
Maze
DoppelPaymer
Clop
Lockbit
Cobalt
Silence
Fxmsp
FIN6
Lazarus
OilRig
APT41
APT32
Gamaredon
Chimera
Mustang Panda
Chafer
APT10
APT33