5 Conclusion
Solarmarker is still an active threat for all public and private entities in the US and
Canada. SEO poisoning and heavy obfuscation methods make this malware one of
the fastest-spreading credential exfiltration tools in its class. Our investigation of its
command-and-control servers revealed that malware operators infected a large number of
victims and were most likely aiming to monetize stolen credentials.
Based on dark market dynamics, there is good reason to believe these credentials would be
sold to the highest bidder. The techniques used by Solarmarker threat actors show that their
priority is to evade detection as much as possible, staying under the radar for extended
periods of time while narrowing down their victim domain to specific regions.
The PTI team revealed all details and shared all findings with relevant authorities, so that
they would shut down Solarmarker operations. All victim information was shared with the
relevant CERT authorities prior to the release of this report.
This investigation demonstrates a few important things to the cybersecurity industry. It shows
the necessity of improving public and private partnerships to stop similar threats before they
cause global impacts. It demonstrates the need for advanced threat intelligence, particularly
the ability to infiltrate cybercriminal C&C infrastructure, and it emphasizes the need for
advanced detection and response solutions that can identify downloaded executable files
masquerading as document files.
23 / 27
DISCLAIMER : This document and its contents shall be deemed as proprietary and privileged information of PRODAFT and shall
be subjected to articles and provisions that have been stipulated in the General Data Protection Regulation and Personal
Data Protection Law. It shall be noted that PRODAFT provides this information “as is” according to its findings, without providing
any legally applicable warranty regarding completeness or accuracy of the contents. Therefore, neither this report nor any of
its contents can be used as admissible proof before legal authorities.
TLP:WHITE Solarmarker In-Depth Analysis
Acknowledgement
We would like to thank ”Police Cantonale Vaudoise / Switzerland” and our advisors for their
valuable guidance and support throughout this research.
The public version of the report will be shared from our github page [https://www.github.](https://www.github.com/prodaft)
[com/prodaft](https://www.github.com/prodaft) . The readers can find new samples, IOCs, and new versions of this report from
our github page as we will constantly update our page based on new findings.