DETECTION
The execution of these commands provide significant opportunities for detection for any organisation with
EDR telemetry. Whilst the goal of some of the commands are to ultimately avoid detection and remain
stealthy, these actions are “noisy” in themselves and provide detection opportunities. The above provided
examples of the disabling of windows security controls should be anomalous in any network, and can be used
to engineer high fidelity detection use cases.
Lazarus Group was observed executing a large number of commands through cmd.exe and other native OS
utilities throughout their time on the target network. Despite attempts to avoid detection and blend in with
standard activity on the network, elements of the commands used will often be anomalous and use specific
esoteric strings that offer blue teams detection opportunities. One distinctive trait common across the
majority of the commands executed by Lazarus Group was the appending of the string “2>&1” to commands;
which whilst used by some tooling should be anomalous when filtered by parent child process relationship,
and provide good detection opportunities.
F-Secure advises organisations with Lazarus Group in their threat profile to develop good coverage of these
native OS techniques to maximise detection opportunities. These commands can blend in with standard
activity, so it may not be possible to build high fidelity detection for all the techniques used. In this situation
the use of lower fidelity detections that are then aggregated on a host basis in order to correlate activity and
build intelligent thresholding in to alerting systems can help to detect malicious activity without generating
too many false positives.
The custom PE loader and one variant of the main implant were both loaded in to the lsass.exe process as
unsigned DLLs, which is a high-fidelity indicator for anyone monitoring these module load events. The
addition of the registry key to load these files is also a high-fidelity indicator that could be detected through
the command line execution or registry scanning for the creation of keys in this path.
There were a number of files created on disk by Lazarus Group, with notably “perflog.dat” and “perflog.evt”
having been created in the “%WINDIR%\Temp\” directory and observed across previous campaigns. In
addition, analysis of the main implants indicates they create the file “mscmain.sdb” or “msomain.sdb” in the
“%WINDIR%\AppPatch\” directory. In both cases the files appear to be uniquely used by this group; therefore,
provide a high fidelity indicator that can be used for detection and potential attribution.
Beyond host level detection there are also significant opportunities to detect the network layer activity of the
various implants, which were using anomalous ports to communicate between workstations and servers that
would stand out from standard traffic. The target organisation had an artificial intelligence based network
detection security tool installed, unfortunately this did not raise any alerts generated during this time period.
The tool was a useful source for evidence during the investigation and the telemetry collected did contain
actionable detection data that blue teams could leverage for proactive means.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 14