cyber operations have become to retaliation upon discovery. a core tool of Iranian statecraft,
Over the past decade, offensive cyber opera## for the purposes of espionage, tions have become a core tool of Iranian state- signaling, and coercion. craft, for the purposes of espionage, signaling,
and coercion. Accounts of Iran’s offensive cyber
operations follow a consistent pattern across
campaigns and among different threat actors. Operations focus on well-defined sets of
targets and are less sophisticated than the campaigns of state-sponsored threat actors
in other countries—to credibly signal threats and create deterrence requires assured
repeatability, a capability that Tehran generally still lacks.
Moreover, the level of professionalization, preparation, and investment necessary to
conduct an operation like Operation Olympic Games remains far outside the capacity of
12     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
Iranian threat actors. Unlike the cyber operations of the United States and Israel, which
are conducted by professional intelligence services supported by billion dollar budgets,
Iran’s offensive and defensive capabilities are disorganized and modestly funded. [20] Thus,
while Iran frequently turns to disruptive attacks to apply pressure, it faces a ceiling of
capability and opportunity in its ability to threaten opponents. Tehran’s clandestine human intelligence gathering in foreign countries, particularly outside the Middle East, is
of similarly low sophistication.
Tehran rarely claims responsibility for offensive cyber operations attributed to it, including those espousing support for the Islamic Republic, and has made contradictory
statements on its cyber posture. Iranian authorities have a history of embellishing the
country’s military capacity, including for cyber operations. In responding to a series
of disruptions of its own infrastructure in October 2012, then minister of intelligence
Heidar Moslehi asserted that “the Islamic Republic is so powerful in the cyber space that
[even] leaders of the arrogant powers admit and acknowledge our country’s successes.” [21]
However, IRGC commander Mohsen Kazemeini also claimed that the IRGC’s cyberwarfare division was not tasked with conducting offensive operations. [22] Official rhetoric
also appears to conflate the state’s effort to push online propaganda with offensive cyber
capabilities, leading to claims of tens of thousands of cyber warriors.
Iran has used reports of destructive incidents to portray itself as a victim of foreign aggression, deflect attention away from its own actions, and boast of its ability to neutralize
potential attacks. When accused by the United States of having conducted a disruptive
attack against American banks, Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Jaberi Ansar responded that “the U.S. government, which put millions of innocent people at the risk of
an environmental disaster through cyber attacks against Iran’s peaceful nuclear facilities,
is not in a position to level accusations against the citizens of other countries, including
those of Iran, without substantiated evidence.” [23] Iranian officials appealed to international institutions for relief after the country had been affected by the malware agents Flame
and Wiper, a move that aligned with its calls for greater United Nations (UN) control
over the internet. [24]
In public statements, Iran has often emphasized its defensive capabilities, announcing in
2015 that its Cyber Attacks Emergency Center had successfully managed to thwart U.S.
cyber attacks against the country’s industrial infrastructure. [25] Iranian military officials
regularly announce new defense products developed by domestic contractors, the most
prominent example being the antivirus software Padvish. [26] Despite these claims, Iran has
shown little success in fostering a mature cybersecurity industry and lags behind both
developed economies and key regional rivals in terms of investing in defense or formulating national policies to secure critical infrastructure.
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    13
While the Iranian government has committed tens of millions of dollars to cybersecurity
in recent years, the scale of these investments pales in comparison to the billions spent
annually by the U.S. government or the hundreds of millions spent individually by American