Intro:
At CrowdStrike, “Intelligence powers everything we do.” This is not a corporate slogan,
and it is not a marketing theme. It is the realization of having the most dedicated
professionals focusing on solving problems that have real strategic, political, and
financial impact on our customers. When we consider the problems facing our
customers, we know that intelligence allows them to make key decisions that can mean
the difference between disaster and triumph.
In the earliest days building CrowdStrike, we drew heavily on the concepts
encompassed in Colonel John Boyd’s OODA loop (OODA is an acronym for Observe,
Orient, Decide, Act). It has been applied over the years to all manner of decision-making
situations. The core of the OODA model is that a decision-making process is broken into
phases, and in an adversarial encounter, two entities will go through the same process.
Whichever entity goes through the process the fastest will likely prevail.
The reason that intelligence powers everything we do is that we seek to provide our
customers with the ability to come to a decision (the last step of the OODA loop)
before the adversary does, thus ensuring a favorable outcome. In intelligence circles,
this is often referred to as decision advantage, and when dealing with adversaries trying
to compromise your enterprise security, you want it.
Throughout 2014, the activity monitored by CrowdStrike in the cyber domain was
reflective of the events unfolding in the real world. This was punctuated in late 2014
with the now-infamous attack attributed to North Korean actors who levied destructive
malware in a flagrant assault against a private entity. The actor in this case, which
CrowdStrike has traced back to 2006, has a history of using destructive code against its
targets. This actor again launched attacks in December against its usual adversary, the
Republic of Korea.
The highly publicized events that initially suppressed the release of a movie deemed
offensive by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea resulted in unprecedented
awareness of the power that one adversary can wield against a target if they are
suitably motivated.
This final chapter in 2014 closed out what was a year of attribution and adversary
focus. In May, the U.S. Department of Justice, in concert with various partners including
CrowdStrike researchers, disrupted the infrastructure of Gameover Zeus, a prolific
4