Conclusions
The Lazarus APT group’s continuous attacks on the financial sector are not much of a surprise to anyone. A
lot of research has been done and published about such attacks. However, we think this case makes a
difference. Recent investigation shows how aggressive the group is and how its strategies may evolve in the
future.
First of all, Lazarus group has entered a new platform: macOS. There is steadily growing interest in macOS
from ordinary users, especially in IT companies. Many developers and engineers are switching to using
macOS. Apparently, in the chase after advanced users, software developers from supply chains and some
high profile targets, threat actors are forced to have macOS malware tools. We believe that in the future
Lazarus is going to support all platforms that software developers are using as a base platform, because
compromising developers opens many doors at once.
https://securelist.com/operation-applejeus/87553/ 27/30
8/23/2018 Operation AppleJeus: Lazarus hits cryptocurrency exchange with fake installer and macOS malware - Securelist
We cannot say with full certainty whether Celas LLC was compromised and the threat actor abused it to
push malware through an update mechanism. However, the multiple successful Lazarus attempts to
compromise supply chain companies suggest that it will keep exploring this infection method. From all
angles, the Celas LLC story looks like the threat actor has found an elaborate way to create a legitimate
looking business and inject a malicious payload into a “legitimate looking” software update mechanism.
Sounds logical: if one cannot compromise a supply chain, why not to make fake one?
This should be a lesson to all of us and a wake-up call to businesses relying on third-party software. Do not
automatically trust the code running on your systems. Neither good looking website, nor solid company
profile nor the digital certificates guarantee the absence of backdoors. Trust has to be earned and proven.
Stay safe!