Execution, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, Credential Access
Discovery, Lateral Movement.

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
14 | P a g e
4.2.1 “Juicy Potato”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Exploitation for Privilege Escalation (T1068)
Juicy Potato is an open-source tool found on GitHub [6] and based on RottenPotatoNG. It can perform
local privilege escalation from NT AUTHORITY\LOCAL SERVICE to NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM using the
“BITS Service” and “COM servers” processes. The tool searches for errors in privileges given to the users
in the credentials manager in order to give a local user higher access.
In order for this tool to run properly on the computer, the attacker has to have one of the following two
permissions:


SeImpersonate – to create a process with a certain token


Se AssignPrimaryToken – to create a process as a certain user


Following is an example of the tool being used, whereas the CMD window is activated under the Local
Service permissions, and through a command that activates “Juicy Potato” another CMD is opened,
now with System permissions [7] :
The tool is downloaded from the command-and-control server used by the attackers in this campaign
– 95.211.215[.]255. This file is 64-bit system compatible, and this in contrast with the one used in 2017
and fitted to 32-bit systems. The file is downloaded to the computer under the title “psexec.exe”, while
at the C2 server it’s called “j.exe” and found at the following address: hxxp://95.211.215[.]225/upd/j.exe.
This URL address leads to downloading a file name “JuicyPotato.exe” and sometimes “jp.exe” – both
are versions of this tool.
6 github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato
7 hunter2.gitbook.io/darthsidious/privilege-escalation/juicy-potato

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
15 | P a g e
In several versions of this file there is an embedded evasion technique through which the tool identifies
virtual machines and doesn’t activate. The “CPUID trick” artifact, used to identify virtual machines and
perform an anti-VM trick, appears in the file downloaded to the computer:
4.2.2 “Procdump” and “Mimikatz”
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Credential Access (TA0006)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Credential Dumping (T1003)
MITRE ATT&CK Tool: Mimikatz (S0002)
During this process, users’ credentials are stolen from the Lsass.exe process using ProcDump and
Mimikatz. In order to perform this process, the attacker needs to have admin permissions on the target
computer.
In this attack scenario, after gaining initial access to the computer, ProcDump, a legitimate Microsoft
tool that dumps the Lsass.exe process, is run. This tool is not identified by anti-virus solutions, unlike
Mimikatz.
Following is an example of using this command as a local user (also executable remotely):
C:\procdump.exe -accepteula -ma lsass.exe lsass.dmp
At this point, a dump file of Lsass.exe which contains the relevant credentials, is produced. The file is
passed to Mimikatz for further extraction – an action which requires local admin privileges.

©All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. www.clearskysec.com
TLP:White                                     info@clearskysec.com
16 | P a g e
4.2.3 “Sticky Keys” and Other Accessibility Tools’ Settings
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
After getting the passwords in the previous stage, the attackers created another mechanism to gain
local admin permissions on target station.
Another tool used by the attackers is abuse of the settings of the “sticky keys” accessibility tool. First,
the attackers delete the “sticky keys” file – sethc.exe – from the computer. Next, they copy the local
admin’s CMD file and switched it with the “sticky keys” process. As a result, when a user connects to
the infected station via RDP and presses five times on a sticky key, for example “Shift”, a high-privileged
Shell will be run at the station [8] .
copy /y C:\windows\system32\cmd.exe C:\windows\system32\sethc.exe
4.2.4 Local Admin User
MITRE ATT&CK Tactic: Persistence (TA0003)
MITRE ATT&CK Technique: Create Account (T1136)
During analysis, we found that the attackers created a special local admin user at the infected stations.
This move allows the attackers to maintain high permissions at the station even if the password of the
station owner’s main user will be changed.