GREYENERGY MODUS OPERANDI
During our tracking of the GreyEnergy group’s activity, we have mostly seen the attackers use two
initial infection vectors. The first one is relevant for organizations with self-hosted web services. If such
a public-facing web service is running on a server that is connected to an internal network, attackers
will try to compromise it and then sneak inside the network. The second infection vector is the use of
spearphishing emails with malicious attachments.
We have observed that malicious documents have been dropping “GreyEnergy mini”, a lightweight
first-stage backdoor that does not require administrative privileges. After compromising a computer
with GreyEnergy mini, attackers map the network and collect passwords in order to obtain domain
administrator privileges. With these privileges, the attackers can control the whole network. The
GreyEnergy group uses fairly standard tools for these tasks: Nmap and Mimikatz.
Once attackers are done with the initial network mapping, they can deploy their flagship backdoor –
the main GreyEnergy malware. This malware requires administrator privileges, which must already have
been obtained before this stage is reached. According to our research, the GreyEnergy actors deploy this
backdoor mainly on two types of endpoints: servers with high uptime, and workstations used to control
ICS environments.
To make communication with command and control (C&C) servers stealthier, the malicious actors may
deploy additional software on internal servers in the compromised network, so each server would act
as a proxy. Such a proxy C&C redirects requests from infected nodes inside the network to an external
C&C server on the internet. This way, it might be less suspicious to a defender who notices that multiple
computers are “talking” to an internal server, rather than to a remote server. This technique can be also
used by attackers to control the malware in different segments of a compromised network. A similar
technique using internal servers as C&C proxies was used by the Duqu 2.0 APT .
If an affected organization has public-facing web servers connected to an internal network, the
attackers may deploy “backup” backdoors onto these servers. These backdoors are used to regain access
to the network in the event that the main backdoors are detected and removed.
All C&C servers we have seen used by the GreyEnergy malware have been Tor relays.
Figure 1. // Simplified scheme of the two network compromise scenarios used by the GreyEnergy group
4 GreyEnergy: A successor to BlackEnergy TLP: WHITE