CONCLUSIONS AND PRESCRIPTIONS
While Iran’s offensive cyber operations have required modest resources to develop, they
have allowed Tehran to project itself as an emerging cyber power able to cause significant
harm to its adversaries. The country’s security establishment has used these resources to
signal to domestic and international audiences its ability to confront political subversion
and retaliate against attacks on its infrastructure. These actions have brought international attention to Iran as a considerable force, perhaps beyond its actual capabilities, but
have been ambiguous enough to allow Tehran to portray itself as a victim of the coercive
measures of foreign states.
As judged from evidence of coordination between security agency actions and observed
cyber operations, the campaigns of Iranian threat actors almost certainly have a direct relationship with government entities, specifically the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
and the Ministry of Intelligence. Given this alignment and collaboration, Iranian threat
actors are described here as state-sponsored. However, since the threat actors are commonly private contractors in small security companies, these relationships are sometimes
nebulous and the operators are not integrated into the state’s forces. [134]
Iranian cyber operations often reflect law enforcement behavior normalized by other
countries in response to advancing information technologies, such as the hacking of
devices to wiretap encrypted internet communications. International standards forums
and telecommunication equipment vendors have legitimized the expectation of lawful
interception of communications, and the Iranian government faces similar challenges of
providing domestic security against terrorist organizations and crime that other coun
49
tries encounter. These interests are expressed frequently in campaigns, which include the
documentation of persistent targeting of militant organizations—both domestic and
regional—that are hostile to the Iranian government, including Baluchi separatists and
the Islamic State.
With the exception of Saudi Arabia, Iran appears to have had little success in compromising hardened government institutions or well protected organizations. After two
decades of cyber crime, governments and private corporations have developed security
policies and maintain collaborative relationships with external security organizations (for
example, computer emergency readiness teams, or CERTs) that allow them to defend
against attacks. In the office environment, companies can provide dedicated technical
resources, exercise centralized control over devices, offer user education, and install protective network equipment that reduces risk. Such resources enable the private sector and
governments to respond to threats and improve awareness collectively as a community.
Private threat intelligences companies and governmental agencies, such as the FBI’s Cyber
Watch (CyWatch), provide corporations with regular reports on common security risks,
including information on the attacker’s documented tools and infrastructure. The FBI has
produced industry notifications on Iranian intrusion activities based on reports sourced
from the private sector, and U.S. government entities have identified Iranian malware
through information supplied from threat intelligence companies. When multiple computers in the Voice of America’s Persian service were infected by Iranian malware named Infy,
the agent’s origin was identified by network administrators through a private report generated by a threat intelligence company that was made available to the agency. [135]
Such resources are not readily available to individuals—especially those residing in
Iran—who find themselves alone and unprepared when targeted by even the most
unsophisticated threat actors. While American banks quickly invested in countermeasures that limited the effectiveness of subsequent DDoS attempts in Operation Ababil,
Persian-language social media platforms and media organizations subject to the same
attacks commonly turned off services rather than pay thousands of dollars in bandwidth costs. [136] One FBI notice sent to the private sector even documented fictitious
profiles that were also used to target the Baha’i community. [137] However, the FBI and
cybersecurity companies do not commonly notify at-risk communities of threats to
their safety and privacy. This divergence and exclusion represents the differences in
opportunities afforded to nongovernmental and noncorporate targets of state-aligned
threat actors.
The increased attention to user security by information technology companies in recent years has directly benefited the targets of Iran. Persian-language digital literacy and
50     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
information security education programs have been developed through foreign assistance
to cater to at-risk audiences, teaching concepts such as password management and how
to recognize social engineering. Widely available account features such as two-factor
authentication, which requires a user to provide a code sent through text message or an
application to log into accounts, have demonstrably made it more difficult for Iranians
to conduct credential theft. Private companies, such as Google and Cloudflare, as well as
government funders, have supported DDoS-mitigation services that provide civil society
organizations with enterprise-level defense resources to protect against such attacks at no
cost, leading to a marked decrease in their frequency.
As a result, a well-educated user with two-factor authentication and an iOS device is a
more difficult target for Iranian threat actors to compromise. However, while technological options for protecting accounts and devices have improved in recent years, in the end
the biggest vulnerability remains the user.
Attempts to forecast the future of Iranian cyber operations are constrained by the secrecy
on the part of the Iranian state about its activities and an uncertain geopolitical climate.
Like most countries, Tehran does not appear to have a clear doctrine as to when it will
engage in disruptive operations and retaliate in cyberspace. Nor is it likely to. In line
with its asymmetric strategies in traditional warfare, Tehran has often benefited from
ambiguity. This may explain why it denies operations attributed to it, as well as why it
did not immediately incorporate threat actors into the military apparatus.
Having been the target of sustained cyber espionage and destructive attacks, Iran is
bound to seek the same capabilities used against it. These capabilities provide Tehran opportunities to impose costs during potential hostilities. While Iran may not appear able to perform syn## chronized multistage attacks wherever it would like, Having been the target of
it can repeatedly hammer away at soft targets in cam## sustained cyber espionage
paigns of attribution. Renewed hostilities between