Operation ShadowHammer: a high-profile supply chain attack
securelist.com /operation-shadowhammer-a-high-profile-supply-chain-attack/90380
By GReAT, AMR on April 23, 2019. 10:00 am
In late March 2019, we briefy highlighted l our
research on ShadowHammer attacks, a
sophisticated supply chain attack involving ASUS
Live Update Utility, which was featured in a Kim
Zetter article on Motherboard. The topic was also
one of the research announcements made at the
SAS conference, which took place in Singapore on
April 9-10, 2019. Now it is time to share more details
about the research with our readers.
At the end of January 2019, Kaspersky Lab
researchers discovered what appeared to be a new
l
attack on a large manufacturer in Asia. Our researchers named it “Operation ShadowHammer”.
Some of the executable files, which were downloaded from the official domain of a reputable and trusted
large manufacturer, contained apparent malware features. Careful analysis confirmed that the binary had
been tampered with by malicious attackers.
It is important to note that any, even tiny, tampering with executables in such a case normally breaks the
digital signature. However, in this case, the digital signature was intact: valid and verifiable. We quickly
realized that we were dealing with a case of a compromised digital signature.
We believe this to be the result of a sophisticated supply chain attack, which matches or even surpasses
the ShadowPad and the CCleaner incidents in complexity and techniques. The reason that it stayed
undetected for so long is partly the fact that the trojanized software was signed with legitimate certificates
(e.g. “ASUSTeK Computer Inc.”).
The goal of the attack was to surgically target an unknown pool of users, who were identified by their
network adapters’ MAC addresses. To achieve this, the attackers had hardcoded a list of MAC addresses
into the trojanized samples and the list was used to identify the intended targets of this massive operation.
We were able to extract more than 600 unique MAC addresses from more than 200 samples used in the
attack. There might be other samples out there with different MAC addresses on their lists, though.