Implications for Defenders
The remote cyber attacks directed against Ukraine’s electricity infrastructure were bold and successful. The
cyber operation was highly synchronized and the adversary was willing to maliciously operate a SCADA system
to cause power outages, followed by destructive attacks to disable SCADA and communications to the field. The
destructive element is the first time the world has seen this type of attack against OT systems in a nation’s
critical infrastructure. This is an escalation from past destructive attacks that impacted general-purpose
computers and servers (e.g., Saudi Aramco, RasGas, Sands Casino, and Sony Pictures). Several lines were crossed
in the conduct of these attacks as the targets can be described as solely civilian infrastructure. Historic attacks,
such as Stuxnet, which included destruction of equipment in the OT environment, could be argued as being
surgically targeted against a military target.
Infrastructure defenders must be ready to confront highly targeted and directed attacks that include their own
ICSs being used against them, combined with amplifying attacks to deny communication infrastructure and
future use of their ICSs. The elements analyzed in the attack indicated that there was a specific sequence to the
misuse of the ICSs, including preventing further defender use of the ICSs to restore the system. This means that
the attacker “burned the bridges” behind them by destroying equipment and wiping devices to prevent
automated recovery of the system. The attacks highlight the need to develop active cyber defenses, capable and
well-exercised incident response plans, and resilient operations plans to survive a sophisticated attack and
restore the system.
Nothing about the attack in Ukraine was inherently specific to Ukrainian infrastructure. The impact of a similar
attack may be different in other nations, but the attack methodology, Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
(TTPs) observed are employable in infrastructures around the world.