Asia-Pacific Europe - Non-Euro North America Africa
3.4 Integration
The means and methods by which cyber-criminals choose to convert stolen funds into an usable end product or
asset can be a useful barometer of the strategic professionalism and experience of the cyber-attack group. It can
also help the process through which law enforcement agencies might close in on the group.
3.4.1 Cash-out conundrum
The cash out process opted for by cyber-criminals (including those involved in precursor
steps, money-mules, operating front companies, etc.) can reveal a strong correlation
between the extravagant ways stolen funds are spent, and the professionalism of the
criminal. Operations that were early in a cyber-criminal’s history or were a one-off
occurrence reveal an immediacy in how stolen funds are used – be it to clear a pressing
debt or for materialistic acquisition. Such suspicious behaviour could be the first clue in
linking them to the heist, which could ultimately start a trail that leads to members of
the cyber-group being identified.
6 https://www.virusbulletin.com/conference/vb2019/abstracts/art-cashout-evolution-attacks-payment-systems
20 // 28 Follow The Money
3.4.2 Integration of funds: cyber-criminals
Some cyber-attack groups have been seen to make many extravagant purchases,
possibly borne out of inexperience, as it draws the attention of law enforcement agencies
and often leads to the arrest of the cyber-criminals. An inability to use the funds more
strategically with less ostentatious purchases is often their undoing. In other cases, the
methods chosen to cash-out the proceeds of a cyber-heist illustrate greater experience
and a strategic approach driven by wanting to maintain a low profile. Property and
jewellery are investments that are likely to hold their value and potentially less likely to
attract the attention of law enforcement.
3.4.3 Integration of funds: nation state actors
The independence and freedoms enjoyed by criminal cyber-groups are not shared by
nation state cyber-groups. Far from their actions leading to materialistic acquisition and
personal possessions, the purpose of these cyber actors is to fulfil the demands and
wishes of the regime.
3.4.4 Reinvesting in criminality
As a final stage of money laundering, cyber-criminals might seek to integrate the
proceeds of a cyber-heist by reinvesting in crime, especially in the illegal drugs market.
Over a third of organised crime groups in Europe, including cyber-criminals, are
directly involved in the production or trafficking of illegal drugs. Cyber-criminals have
been known to operate websites, which facilitate the sale of illegal drugs, firearms,
malicious software, hacking tools, stolen financial information, payment cards and other
illegal counterfeit goods on a number of dark web marketplaces. In some instances,
this activity can lead to kickback payments in bitcoin that is equivalent to several
million USD$.
3.4.5 Cryptocurrency and its growing appeal
Identified cases of laundering through cryptocurrencies remain relatively small
compared to the volumes of cash laundered through traditional methods. However,
in one major case, a significant cyber-crime group is estimated to have converted
stolen funds obtained from ATM cashouts into cryptocurrency. The raft of alternative
cryptocurrencies that offer greater anonymity, as well as services like mixers and
tumblers that help obscure the source of funds by blending potentially identifiable
cryptocurrency funds with large amounts of other funds, could boost the appeal of
cryptocurrency for nefarious purposes.
baesystems.com/SWIFT
In one case that resulted in arrest and prosecution, authorities found 15,000
bitcoins valued at USD$109 million, two sports cars and jewellery worth
USD$557,000 at the house of the group leader. The group was found to operate
in a truly international manner: the bitcoin farm where the group mined bitcoin
in order to launder the stolen funds from the heists was located in an industrial
building in East Asia, while many of the group arrested originated from Eastern
Europe and the leader enjoyed the benefits of the stolen funds in Western Europe.
For heavily sanctioned territories, like a FATF high risk jurisdiction whose modus
operandi focusses on raising funds with minimal associated risk, cryptocurrency
offers a different income stream to targeting banks and financial institutions. It
has been shown how the Lazarus Group have harnessed East Asian facilitators [7]
in order to launder funds after a heist at a cryptocurrency exchange, using
techniques that are similar to that described for heists from banks. The following
summarises the process from the point of execution of the cyber heist:
 - Lazarus Group steal funds in cryptocurrency from an exchange and stolen

cryptocurrency is sent to multiple exchanges as a layering technique.
 - East Asian facilitators, working on behalf of the Lazarus Group and the

regime, receive a portion of the stolen funds.
 - The East Asian facilitators transfer the cryptocurrency across addresses they

hold, in order to further obfuscate the origin of the funds.
 - East Asian facilitators move a portion of the received funds through newly

added bank accounts that are linked to their exchange account – this enables
the conversion from cryptocurrency into fiat currency. Other stolen funds
might be transferred in Bitcoin into prepaid gift cards, which can be used at
other exchanges to purchase additional Bitcoin.
Further insight into the money laundering methods used by the Lazarus Group
is offered by activity after a cyber-theft at a cryptocurrency exchange in June
2018 [8] . This resulted in the theft of USD$30 million in various crypto-assets.
Subsequently, almost 2,000 Bitcoin was moved into a cryptocurrency exchange
in Eastern Europe, over a 4 day period, involving 68 transactions. It is assessed
that such a painstaking, strategic pattern of transactions is consistent with a desire
to circumvent an exchange’s anti money-laundering (AML) controls, including red
flags associated with transaction limits.
7 https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm924
8 https://rusi.org/publication/occasional-papers/closing-crypto-gap-guidance-countering-north-korean-cryptocurrency
21 // 28
22 // 28 Follow The Money
3.4.6 Prepaid cryptocurrency cards
Cyber-criminals might seek to use cryptocurrency as a method for obfuscating and
laundering the funds stolen during a cyber-heist, before making various purchases in
order to integrate the funds. In this instance, cyber-criminals might launder the stolen
funds at a bitcoin farm, before using financial platforms to load prepaid cards with
bitcoin. Prepaid cryptocurrency cards can facilitate the reversion of cryptocurrency
back into fiat currency in small amounts. This technique is enabled by a loophole
so when the original financial institution issues the card, it does so in conjunction
with the card issuer’s partner – this partner company receive and convert the funds
from cryptocurrency into fiat currency. The stolen money from several cyber-heists
has in some cases been seen to be laundered via cryptocurrencies, using prepaid
cards that are linked to cryptocurrency wallets. Financial platforms in Europe and
the UK have been used to load prepaid cards with bitcoin, which were subsequently
used to purchase jewellery, cars and property with stolen funds – those assets may
sometimes then be subsequently sold, as a further money laundering step.
3.4.7 Converting cryptocurrency into tangible assets
An emergence of online marketplaces could offer effective methods for converting
cryptocurrencies into tangible assets that can be held anonymously, or be sold as
an extra step of laundering the proceeds of a cyber-heist. There are dedicated sites
that facilitate the purchase of high-end land and property assets across the world,
including luxury penthouses and tropical islands, as well as watches, jewellery,
gold bars, and fine art. The concern for the financial system is that these digital
transactions are conducted in a peer-to-peer manner that circumvents the checks and
processes by banks, and often require only an e-mail address to make the purchase.
This means that funds used to make a purchase that have been acquired by criminal
means can be kept concealed.
baesystems.com/SWIFT
23 // 28