RDAT Backdoor
The adversaries compiled the RDAT payloads used in the attacks on the Middle Eastern
telecommunications organization on March 1, 2020, and configured it to use a domain
provided on the command line or the hardcoded domain rsshay[.]com as its C2 server.
Unlike previous RDAT samples, this particular sample only uses DNS tunneling for its C2
communications with no HTTP fallback channel. This RDAT sample can only use TXT
queries in its DNS tunnel and will issue queries structured like the following:
..<C2
domain>
The encoded data portion of the subdomain is encoded base32 if the actor includes a
command line argument 1 – otherwise, it uses base64. The payload also substitutes
characters within the base64 encoded subdomain to avoid including characters that are
not allowed in domain names, such as = with -, / with _ and + with -a. For example, we
observed the following beacon during our testing:
91mzXgXT-a9sLktr-aOz8pAw–.0R2.rsshay[.]com
The encoded data in the beacon (subdomain) is ciphertext generated using AES and a 16byte key generated by concatenating two randomly chosen alphanumeric characters that
are also present in the subdomain immediately before the C2 domain. For instance, if the
two random alphanumeric characters included in the subdomain were R2, the payload
would use the string R2R2R2R2R2R2R2R2 as a key to encrypt the data. The example
beacon above would decrypt to 1,6,1.0_Y,2619, which is structured as follows:
,,,

https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/oilrig-novel-c2-channel-steganography/ 4/18
7/23/2020 OilRig Targets Middle Eastern Telecommunications Organization and Adds Novel C2 Channel with Steganography to Its Inventory
The payload decodes the response for an answer to the TXT query with base64 and
decrypts using the same AES cipher and key as the request. The payload attempts to parse
the decrypted cleartext using the regular expression “[^,]+” to get the command value
and the command arguments that are split with a comma. The payload then checks the
command value using a command handler that has the ability to execute commands and
upload and download files, as seen in Table 1.
Com-
mand
Description
0 Idle.
1 Run specified command. Creates write and read pipes to issue the command
and read the output and sends the results to the C2 over the DNS tunnel.
2 Uploads a file to the C2 by reading in a specified file and sending its contents
over the DNS tunnel in chunks.
3 Downloads a file via the DNS tunnel.
Table 1. Commands available in RDAT