DEFENDING STRATEGIC FACILITIES
In addition to the protection of Russian leaders, C4ADS found evidence that GNSS
spoofing is used to protect strategic Russian government residences and other highlysensitive facilities near the Black Sea and in Moscow. Unlike the spoofing activity
associated with VIP visits to remote locations, the activity seen in the vicinity of static
government facilities is more frequent, affects a greater number of vessels, and appears
to interfere with receivers over a greater distance.
Official Russian Government Facilities
C4ADS observed patterns of GNSS spoofing around official Russian buildings in both
Moscow and on the Russian Black Sea coast. In Sochi and Olyva, GNSS spoofing
interfered with vessel navigation systems off the coast of official government
residences owned and operated by the FSO. Similarly, potential spoofing activity
occurred near the Kremlin and the Presidential Residence in Moscow. These facilities
are publicly acknowledged as belonging to the Russian government and are afforded
special airspace protections reserved for strategic government and military facilities. In
all cases, GNSS spoofing disruptions beginning in 2016 forced victim receivers to report
positions at local civilian airports. These events have continued to affect receivers as of
the time of this report’s publication.
31
Above Us Only Stars
Black Sea Residences
Aeronavigation charts dated July 2017 and August 2018 from the Russian Center of
Aeronavigation Information show that the airspaces above two facilities in Sochi and
a large swath of the southern coast of Crimea near Olyva are classified as prohibited. [99]
100 Prohibited is the strictest classification for airspace in the Russian Federation and is
typically used for airspace over highly sensitive government and military installations. [101]
In Sochi, the Russian presidential and prime ministerial residences of Bocharov Ruchey
and Riviera-6, respectively, are located in the center of two prohibited airspaces.
Similarly, the prohibited airspace along the southern coast of Crimea is situated above
a string of coastal residences that are now occupied by the Russian government. [102]
The Bocharov Ruchey and Riviera-6 residences in Sochi are widely reported to be
overseen by the Caucasus branch of the FSO, which is responsible for the protection
of all government residences in the south of the country. [103] [104] Similarly, in December
2016, following the Russian annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, Crimean authorities
transferred control of five government residences located in Foros and Olyva to the
Crimean branch of the Russian FSO. [105]
32
Above Us Only Stars
According to Crimean news and social media reports, significant FSO security
activities began at the government dachas and residences around March 2016, several
months before the first detection of GNSS spoofing in the region. [106] In addition to FSO
checkpoints and brick walls now surrounding the complexes, images of large security
fences bordering the highway to the north have emerged on social media accounts. [107]
108
33
Above Us Only Stars
Potential Systems in Use (Stationary)
Due to heightened security around the Black Sea dachas and residences, C4ADS was
unable to collect data on the systems potentially in use at these facilities. However, the
area around the Kremlin in central Moscow is more prone to analysis using public data.
Already, Russian researchers have recorded possible spoofing activity near the Kremlin.
In October 2016, a researcher driving around central Moscow on a Segway reportedly
used a collection of receivers to detect GPS and GLONASS interference signals near
the Kremlin. [109] Similarly, in September 2017, a researcher searching for the source of
Moscow’s GPS spoofing found that the spoofed signals likely originate from a position
outside, rather than inside, the Kremlin. [110]
Suspected Kremlin Counter-Drone Systems
Based on leads generated by Russian journalists and hobbyists searching for the source
of Moscow’s GNSS spoofing, [111] [112] C4ADS identified possible GNSS spoofing equipment
based on at least three buildings in central Moscow. All three buildings host what appear
to be identical antennas and transmission equipment on their rooftops. According
to publicly available imagery, the antennas appear to face the Kremlin. Two of the
buildings are openly owned by the Russian government, the third inexplicably lacks
official ownership information in local property records. [113] The equipment at all three
locations first appeared between June 2015 and September 2016 on street mapping
websites, or within the time frame that GNSS spoofing activity was first reported near
the Kremlin. [114]
34
Above Us Only Stars
35
Above Us Only Stars
include a switch from a standard dipole element to a more broadband-type antenna
such as a Vivaldi element, which would allow for a wider range of frequencies to be
potentially monitored and located. [i] [121]
Unidentified Building with Counter Drone Equipment
Of the three buildings that C4ADS identified in Moscow hosting possible counterdrone systems, at least two are directly associated with the Russian Government, as
evidenced in official Russian property records from August 2018. [122] The third, located
at D 4-10 Ipatyevskiy Lane, Building 1, has no associated ownership information listed
in official government databases. However, this building hosts an antenna array that
appears identical to the equipment seen at the government-owned facilities elsewhere
in Moscow. Based on a review of publicly available imagery on sites such as Yandex
and Google Street View, the equipment appears to have been deployed sometime
between 2015 and September 2016. Like the other two buildings, the equipment at
Ipatyevskiy Lane faces the Kremlin.
Official documentation from the Russian Land Registry for D 4-10 Ipatyevskiy Lane,
Building 1, indicates that the ownership information has either been censored, removed,
or never recorded in the official registry, although the available records show that the
property was assigned a cadastral number on May 22, 2012. [123] While property records
do not provide ownership information for the complex, street view imagery from 2013,
i At this time, updated 2018 Yandex Street view imagery of the direction-finding antenna positioned at 4-10
Ipatyevskiy Lane suggests that these upgraded antennas are now in use at multiple identified locations.
36
Above Us Only Stars
before the road was shut to the public, shows at least 10 vehicles with serialized license
plate numbers ending in OO77 parked outside the building. [124] [125] According to several
publicly available Russian DMV databases reviewed by C4ADS, this serialization pattern
has been previously associated with vehicles belonging to the Office of the President
of the Russian Federation. [126]
Unofficial Government Facilities
In contrast to areas where an official government presence made the placement of a
GNSS spoofing device a logical protective measure, spoofing activity off the coast off
Gelendzhik did not appear to have an obvious explanation. The coast near Gelendzhik
does not have any declared government residences. Despite this, spoofing events off
the Gelendzhik coast were the most frequent in our sample. We wanted to find the
likely source of this activity, and so we turned to local media reports and an abundance
of spoofed vessel position data to narrow our search.
Gelendzhik is frequented by security service officials, which is in line with popular but
unconfirmed reports that President Vladimir Putin maintains a private residence in
the outskirts of the town. [127] [128] [129] Following an examination of several hypotheses, we
believe that the GNSS spoofing system in use near Gelendzhik is land-based. [130] Given
the frequent nature of GNSS spoofing activity near Gelendzhik and its wide-reaching
effects on vessels in the area, we posited that the device has access to a reliable and
sustained source of electricity.
Aggregated Line of Sight Analysis
To trace back to high-probability basing locations for spoofing devices in use near
Gelendzhik, C4ADS conducted an aggregated line of sight analysis. Due to the physical
limitations of ultra-high frequency GNSS signals, spoofed signals would generally
be unable to pass through physical obstructions such as mountains. [131] To determine
37
Above Us Only Stars
visibility from a given location, C4ADS used ArcGIS to process 3D terrain maps of the
area around Gelendzhik. Using AIS positioning data from 1,920 spoofing instances,
we calculated the areas along the coastline that would be able to “see” all or nearly
all of the vessels in our dataset. Based on these line of sight calculations for affected
vessel receiver positions, we were able to narrow down potential basing areas to just
a few land-based locations. The results indicated that only one facility located at Cape
Idokopas appeared to have line of sight with more than 98% of the affected vesselbased receivers.
Cape Idokopas Residence
Cape Idokopas, located about 20km to the southeast of Gelendzhik, Russia, appears
to be the most likely location for a terrestrial GNSS spoofing transmitter. The analysis
indicates that it is located in proximity to several positions that have line of sight
with at least 98 percent of affected vessels off the coast of Gelendzhik. The Cape is
home to a sprawling facility containing a large Italianate palace, several helicopter
pads, an amphitheater, and a small port. The complex was the subject of extensive
international investigative reporting that alleged the property was built at the direction
of then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin under the auspices of an investment scheme
referred to as “Project South,” allegedly for use as his private dacha. [132] [133] [134] The Russian
government continues to deny that President Putin has any involvement with the
38
Above Us Only Stars
facility. [135] [136] Regardless, high profile allegations of corruption have long dogged the
project. Investigative reporting by Reuters in 2014 indicated that funds from a $1 billion
program ordered by then-President Putin in 2005 to improve Russian healthcare were
used to finance the construction of the facility. [137]
Aeronavigation charts dated July 2017 from the Russian Center of Aeronavigation
Information show that the airspace above the Idokopas facility is classified as
Prohibited. [138] [139] The facility maintains the same level of flight restriction that exists
over the presidential and prime ministerial residences in Sochi. [140] However, unlike the
official government residences and protected military facilities in Russia and Crimea,
the prohibited airspace over Cape Idokopas appears to only protect a private residence.
As discussed below, extensive property and corporate records along with previous
investigative reporting outlined below suggest that the facility has an opaque history
of involvement with elements of the FSO and Federal Security Service (FSB). [141]
For example, facility construction activities appear to have some associations with the
FSO. In 2017, a newly constructed port appeared to the south of the Cape Idokopas palace.
AIS records and satellite imagery indicate that a vessel called the Chernomorets-35
was present during, and may have assisted in, the development of the port. [142] Official
records from the Russian contract registry show that 70 percent of the ship owner’s
contracts were with elements of the Russian state security services including the FSO,
FSB, and the Presidential Administration. [143] This is supported by AIS records for the
Chernomorets-35, which suggest that the vessel is one of a relatively small number
permitted to operate at the FSO-operated government residences at Bocharov Ruchey,
Riviera-6, and Olyva. [144] In fact, the majority of areas visited by Chernomorets-35 appear
to be officially owned or operated by elements of the FSO. [145]
39
Above Us Only Stars
The Chernomorets-35 is the only vessel that fell victim to GNSS spoofing in proximity to
Sochi, Gelendzhik, and Olyva while reportedly conducting construction activities at the
government and private residences located nearby. The vessel’s close position to the
coast and proximity to sensitive facilities when it was affected by spoofed signals are
additional indications that the spoofing devices may be positioned near the facilities
themselves.
40
Above Us Only Stars
Idokopas Palace Ownership
C4ADS conducted an extensive property and corporate records analysis of the Cape
Idokopas residence, matching it with previous investigative reporting. We found an
opaque history of involvement with elements of the FSO and FSB.
According to official property records from the Russian cadastral registry last accessed
by C4ADS in July 2018, the Gelendzhik-based company Kompleks LLC [146] is the sole
owner of the Idokopas facility. [147] These same records indicated that Kompleks LLC
became the owner of the facility on or before May 27, 2013. Official property records
also show that the road and land bordering the main entrance to the facility is owned
by the FSB’s Border Directorate. [148] These records indicate that the FSB acquired the
land on May 19, 2008. [149] It is currently unknown whether the FSB maintains an active
presence at the facility. On at least one occasion in February 2011, environmentalists
from the Russian organization Ecological Watch visiting the Cape Idokopas palace were
confronted by facility security. This incident involved guards allegedly belonging to the
border force, as well as an officer bearing patches and epaulets resembling those of a
Senior Lieutenant in the FSO. [150] [151]
Historical ownership records for Kompleks LLC appear to show that at the time of
the property’s purchase in May 2013, 100 percent of Kompleks LLC’s shares belonged
to Moscow-based Investstroy LLC. [152] [153] [154] According to Russian corporate records, at
the time that Kompleks LLC purchased the property, two Russian individuals named
41
Above Us Only Stars
Tatyana Arnoldovna Kuznetsova and Inna Yuryevna Kolpakova were the sole equal
shareholders of Investstroy LLC. [155] According to reporting from several Russian news
agencies, both Tatyana Kuznetsova and Inna Kolpakova are married to former highranking officers in the FSO. [156] [157] [158]
Tatyana Kuznetsova is reportedly the wife of Oleg Sergeyevich Kuznetsov, who is
reported to have previously served as the head of Military Unit 1473 of the FSO. [159] [160]
Unit 1473, based in Moscow, is responsible for the management and operation of real
estate belonging to the Russian state security services. [161] Inna Kolpakova is reportedly
the wife of Alexandr Sergeyevich Koplakov who reportedly formerly served as the
head of Directorate ‘V’ of the FSO Presidential Security Service until 2013. [162] [163] The FSO
Presidential Security Service is directly tasked with protecting the Russian Head of
State. [164]
A contract signed pursuant to a 2005 investment agreement, published by the Russian
newspaper Novaya Gazeta, indicates that Oleg Kuznetsov and Unit 1473 maintained
involvement in the initial stages of development of the Cape Idokopas facility. [165] [166] [167]
These same documents also appear to show the involvement of Vladimir Kozhin in
the development of the property at the same time that he was working as an aide to
the Russian president. [168] The US Department of the Treasury sanctioned Kozhin under
Executive Order 13661 in 2014 in response to the Russian annexation of Crimea. [169] In an
April 2011 interview with Kommersant, Kozhin confirmed his involvement in the initial
stages of the property’s development, but claimed that it was only to encourage real
estate development among investors. [170]
Novaya Gazeta reported that, in 2010, a Russian whistleblower who claimed to have
been involved in the financing of the Cape Idokopas palace, alleged that construction
42
Above Us Only Stars
43
Above Us Only Stars