Financially Motivated Activity
Unlike other observed Chinese espionage operators, APT41 conducts explicit
financially motivated activity, which has included the use of tools that are
otherwise exclusively used in campaigns supporting state interests. The latenight to early morning activity of APT41's financially motivated operations
suggests that the group primarily conducts these activities outside of their
normal day jobs. However, the group compiled malware for use in cyber crime
activity even during espionage-focused working hours.

As demonstrated in Figure 4, operational times for APT41 espionage

operations over all observed activity are relatively close to Chinese work hours
(in UTC +8, China's time zone).

In contrast, the group's financially motivated activity targeting the video game

industry tends to occur much later in the night.
Operational times at gaming targets are most frequent between 18:00 and
07:00 (UTC +8), providing some indication that the group is moonlighting. Note
that this is based on data collected over years and does not represent a daily
schedule.

The typical working hours in China for tech workers is a "996" work schedule

(9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., six days a week), which is consistent with APT41's
operational activity observed over time.

Operational times at targets not related to video games (and therefore, almost

certainly in support of state-sanctioned missions) are more frequent between
14:00 and 22:00 (China Standard Time (CST), UTC +8), closer to conventional
working hours (Figure 4).

Analysis of compile times for all portable executable (PE) files suggests that

APT41's average working hours fall between 10:00 to 23:00 (UTC +8),
highlighting that the financially motivated activity is most likely extraneous
to their espionage operations.

Compile times for samples used in suspected financial gain missions are skewed

toward later in the evening, roughly 19:00 to 00:00 (UTC +8). However, there
is significant overlap with the compile times of PE files deployed at espionage
targets between 15:00 to 19:00 (UTC +8).
Figure 4:
Operational
activity for gaming
versus non
gaming-related
targeting based
on observed
operations since
2012.
Operational Times at
Gaming Targets
Operational Times at
Non-Gaming Targets
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 15
APT41 Operational Times UTC +8
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
The group has also targeted cryptocurrencies, including at
least one case in which there was a connection between
cryptocurrency and an online video gaming platform.

In June 2018, APT41 sent spear-phishing emails using an

invitation lure to join a decentralized gaming platform
linked to a cryptocurrency service (Figure 5) that had
positioned itself as a medium of exchange for online
games and gambling sites. The malicious emails were
sent from an email address listed with the name Tom
Giardino, which is likely a reference to an employee at
Valve, an American video game developer responsible
for the software distribution platform Steam and
various video games. The body of the email (Figure 6)
also mentions gaming offerings. This provides another
connection between the targeting of the cryptocurrency
organizations and video game targeting.

In October 2018, the group compiled an instance

of XMRig, a Monero cryptocurrency mining tool,
demonstrating a continued interest in cryptocurrency.
16 SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION
Figure 5:
Screenshot of
invitation to join
the FairWin online
gaming platform.
Figure 6:
English translation
of invitation to join
the FairWin online
gaming platform.
From: Tom Giardino < 
Date: 
Subject: Project (FairWin) online application!
Project Introduction:
FairWin is a decentralized online gaming platform.
Be sure to win fairness because our special FairChannel guarantees accurate RTP rates.
The system is based on a blockchain, which means that the gameplay process is open. The
payment of the bonus is automatic. Not dependent on the organizer. In addition to this, we
also offer fun generous games with fascinating graphics. It can be run on any device and any
browser so that all players can enjoy these experiences.
Please refer to the attachment for other details!
SPECIAL REPORT | DOUBLE DRAGON: APT41, A DUAL ESPIONAGE AND CYBER CRIME OPERATION 17
CASE STUDY