Attack methodology
The attackers first researched desired targets and then sent an email specifically to the target. Each organiza­
tion typically only saw a handful of employees at the receiving end of these emails. However, in one organization
almost 500 recipients received a mail, while in two other organizations, more than 100 were selected. While
the attackers used different pretexts when sending these malicious emails, two methodologies stood out. First,
when a specific recipient was targeted, the mails often purported to be meeting invitations from established
business partners. Secondly, when the emails were being sent to a broad set of recipients, the mails purported
to be a necessary security update. The emails then contained an attachment that was either an executable that
appeared to be a text file based on the file name and icon, or a password-protected archive containing an execut­
able file with the password provided in the email. In both cases, the executable file was a self-extracting execut­
able containing PoisonIvy, a common backdoor Trojan developed by a Chinese speaker.
When the recipient attempted to open the attachment, they would inadvertently execute the file, causing Poi­
sonIvy to be installed. Once PoisonIvy was installed, it contacted a C&C server on TCP port 80 using an encrypt­
ed communication protocol. Using the C&C server, the attackers then instructed the compromised computer to
provide the infected computer’s IP address, the names of all other computers in the workgroup or domain, and
dumps of Windows cached password hashes.
By using access to additional computers through the currently logged on user or cracked passwords through
dumped hashes, the attackers then began traversing the network infecting additional computers. Typically, their
primary goal is to obtain domain administrator credentials and/or gain access to a system storing intellectual
property. Domain administrator credentials make it easier for the attacker to find servers hosting the desired
intellectual property and gain access to the sensitive materials. The attackers may have also downloaded and
installed additional tools to penetrate the network further.
While the behavior of the attackers differs slightly in each compromise, generally once the attackers have identi­
fied the desired intellectual property, they copy the content to archives on internal systems they use as internal
staging servers. This content is then uploaded to a remote site outside of the compromised organization com­
pleting the attack.