Southeast Asia and Korean Peninsula
This quarter we detected a lot of Korean-related activity. However, for the rest of the Southeast
Asian region there has not been that much activity, especially when compared to earlier periods.
Early in Q2, we identified an interesting Lazarus attack targeting a mobile gaming company in
South Korea that we believe was aimed at stealing application source code. It’s clear that Lazarus
keeps updating its tools very quickly. Meanwhile, BlueNoroff, the Lazarus sub-group that typically
targets financial institutions, targeted a bank in Central Asia and a crypto-currency business in
China.
In a recent campaign, we observed ScarCruft using a multi-stage binary to infect several victims
and ultimately install a final payload known as ROKRAT – a cloud service-based backdoor.
ScarCruft is a highly skilled APT group, historically using geo-political issues to target the Korean
Peninsula. We found several victims worldwide identified as companies and individuals with ties
to North Korea, as well as a diplomatic agency. Interestingly, we observed that ScarCruft
continues to adopt publicly available exploit code in its tools. We also found an interesting overlap
in a Russian-based victim targeted both by ScarCruft and DarkHotel – not the first time that we
have seen such an overlap.
ESET recently analyzed a new Mac OS sample from the OceanLotus group that had been
uploaded to VirusTotal. This backdoor shares its features with a previous Mac OS variant, but the
structure has changed and detection is now much harder. Researchers were unable to find the
dropper associated with this sample, so they could not identify the initial compromise vector.
The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has reported Trojan variants, identified as
HOPLIGHT, being used by the North Korean government. The report includes an analysis of nine
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ malicious executable files. Seven of them are proxy applications that mask traffic between the 6/8
malwareandtheremoteoperatorsTheproxieshavetheabilitytogeneratefakeTLShandshake
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
sessions using valid public SSL certificates, disguising network connections with remote
malicious actors. One file contains a public SSL certificate and the payload of the file appears to
be encoded with a password or key. The remaining file does not contain any of the public SSL
certificates, but attempts outbound connections and drops four files: the dropped files primarily
contain IP addresses and SSL certificates.
In June, we came across an unusual set of samples used to target diplomatic, government and
military organizations in countries in South and Southeast Asia. The threat actor behind the
campaign, which we believe to be the PLATINUM APT group, uses an elaborate, previously
unseen, steganographic technique to conceal communication. A couple of years ago, we
predicted that more and more APT and malware developers would use steganography, and this
campaign provides proof: the actors used two interesting steganography techniques in this APT.
It’s also interesting that the attackers decided to implement the utilities they need as one huge set
– an example of the framework-based architecture that is becoming more and more popular.