Developers
Throughout much of the code, we saw
indications of its origin. For instance,
when looking at the code for the file,
TypeConfig.vcproj.INTERNAL.
[REDACTED]04.user, located under
Src>TypeConfig, we were not only
able to locate the author’s name but
also the language setting, , which refers to the
registered Internet name for a key
official character set of the People’s
Republic of China (PRC). [10] However,
Figure 22: TypeConfig’s source code
other comments, especially those
within the PHP code, often appeared in English.
In addition to the language used, we
found that the malware author used
a name in several places throughout
the source code. For instance, under
the directory, Src>TypeConfig>, we
noticed an interesting .vcproj file called
“ TypeConfig.vcproj.INTERNAL.
[REDACTED]04.user .”
Figure 23: Vcproj configuration with
machine name
This file contains a remote machine
configuration module that includes the author’s name and the name of the
development machine used, which directly correlates to “CompanyName”
found elsewhere in the code.
10 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GB_2312
PAGE 14 | Safe: A Targeted Threat
Figure 24: TypeConfig’s source code with author information
We found the string, “CompanyName,” in the C source code that contains
the same name as the development machine’s. The PHP code used as the
C&C server’s back end contained a copyright notice that matches the author’s
name in the C code as well as an email address/QQ number that matches the
“CompanyName” in the C code.
Figure 25: Copyright notice containing a name and an email address/QQ number
The email address was used to register a domain name for a personal blog
about software development with a Beijing street address. We also found the
same name and email address used by an author of an academic paper at
a technical university in China. Posts on this individual’s personal blog also
indicate a relationship with the same university, including the development of
some legitimate software.
PAGE 15  |  Safe: A Targeted Threat
The “CompanyName” in the source
code, portions of which are contained
in the email address/QQ number, were
also found in source code for
keyloggers and malware posted on a
Chinese code-sharing site.
We also found legitimate code that
appears to have been developed by an
Internet services company used as
part of the C&C panel. This code was
not developed by the same person that
we believe developed the Safe malware
but appears to simply have been reused.
We believe though that
this code is not publicly available.
Figure 26: Repurposed source code
Figure 27: SVN repository with user name
In the code’s archive we recovered from the C&C servers, we found a .csv
directory that contains an entries file that contains the location of the repository
as well as the time, version, and user name of the person who last committed
the source code. The author information indicates that the malware author
checked the code in to the Internet services company’s private SVN repository.
It appears that the malware author has been repurposing the code for his own
malware project.
We believe the malware author is a professional software engineer that is
familiar with version control. We also found indicators that this individual is
proficient in software development due to the high quality of the source code he
used. The entire source code was explicitly written with future development in
mind. It was modularized and heavily commented on in a way that allows further
development even by several engineers. These qualities are traditionally seen
in the work of professional software engineers that have been taught traditional
computer science.
Apart from being significantly well-organized and well-commented, the code
was also developed with defensive programming in mind. Each of the variables
was named in a very obvious manner, helping other engineers easily distinguish
functionality; again, a trait seen in the work of many professional software
engineers. In addition to being heavily commented on and using intuitive
variable naming conventions, the code also had an apparent slant toward
usability. Each interface was very intuitive and well-designed, something not
often seen in the code of a hobbyist.
The use of terms like “bot,” combined with the author’s posting of the malware
code to code-sharing sites, indicate a degree of familiarity with the cybercriminal
underground in China. We have not, however, uncovered evidence that links the
malware author with the campaign’s operators.