INTER-PROCESS COMMUNICATIONS
Analysis of the sample reveals that it supports 3 modes of fetching C&C commands.


In the first mode, it relies on Windows Internet (WinINet) APIs, such as HttpOpenRequest(), HttpSendRequest(),
InternetReadFile(), etc.


In the second mode, it uses Windows Sockets 2 (Winsock) APIs, such as WSAStartup(), socket(), connect(),
send(), etc.


In the third mode, it works in the ‘pipe server’ mode, when it passes the web requests it is interested in (as a client) to the
pipe server that runs within Windows Explorer (explorer.exe) and/or Internet Explorer (iexplore.exe) processes.


Memory pipes is a common mechanism for Inter-Process Communications (IPC). When the pipe server reads such requests from the
pipes, it performs the web request on behalf of a client by using WinINet APIs, so it effectively serves as a proxy.
The diagram below demonstrates the last, ‘pipe server’ mode of Snake operation:
User Mode
Injected Snake DLL
Legitimate Process
(e.g. a browser)
The diagram illustrates the operation steps 1-4:
1
2
3
4
First, the malicious driver with the embedded DLL module injects that DLL into a system process,
such as services.exe; once loaded, the DLL will function in the ‘pipe server’ mode.
As soon as the driver detects a usermode process that goes online (e.g. a browser), it will inject malicious DLL module
into it; depending on the operational mode, the DLL may start communicating with C&C directly.
In the ‘pipe mode’ of operation, the injected DLL will start communicating with the pipe server by sending messages into
the established inter-process communication pipes.
Once the task of communication with C&C is delegated to the pipe server, it will start communicating with the C&C,
bypassing the host-based firewalls that keep an infected system process in a white-list.
BAE Systems Applied Intelligence: Snake Rootkit Report 2014 12
The reason behind the pipes usage is to ‘legitimise’ the outbound web requests, forcing them to originate from the host firewallfriendly system services.
Pipe server is a special mode of the injected DLL. In order to switch into that mode, a dedicated thread is spawned to listen for IPC
messages received through the pipes. The memory pipes used by Snake are named as:
• \.\Pipe\SP[COMPUTERNAME]
• \.\Pipe\UP[COMPUTERNAME]
where [COMPUTERNAME] is the name of the host computer.
Apart from GET/POST requests, the pipe clients (infected usermode processes) may also ask the pipe server to perform other
operations on their behalf, such as saving data into a temporary file, copy/delete files, save configuration data into the registry
under the aforementioned ShellCore value.
This delegation of tasks is designed to keep infected processes under the radar of the behavioural analysis tools for as long as
possible. Another reason is to overcome account restrictions imposed on a browser process in order to be able to write into files/
registry.
To delegate different types of tasks, the clients send messages to the pipe server using the following task identification headers:
• DATA
• CREATE
• CMD
• POST
• GET
• DEL
• REGISTR
• COPY
The usermode component of Snake communicates with its kernel-mode driver via a device called \.\vstor32 (created under
kernel as \Device\vstor32). In its communication protocol with the driver it uses the IOCTL code of 0x222038.
To write data, it opens the device with CreateFile(“\.\vstor32”), then calls DeviceIoControl() API on its handle with
IOCTL code of 0x222038.
Configuration parameters along with the initial set of domain names are hard-coded within the body of the DLL. However, the data
appears to be defined in the structures, so it is very likely the DLL could be generated by a stand-alone builder that ‘patches’ the
DLL with the new/updated list of C&C.
Analysis of the commands performed by the malware suggests the following capabilities:


Scan the network for the presence of other hosts (maximum 1 hour is allocated for this task)


Set maximum upload file size


Go ‘stealth’ mode for the specified number of days - Snake will not initiate any connections during that time


Run specified shell commands and collect the output logs for further delivery


Modify settings stored with the registry key HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\ShellCore


Search for files


Upload specified files


Add new C&C domains


Update the driver with a new version


Download files


Run specified executable files


Set self-deactivation timeout


If the virtual partition \.\vd1 exists, copy all Snake logs into that partition


Together, these commands provide complete backdoor functionality, allowing remote attacker full control over the compromised
system.
The ability to update the driver and then rely on its communication capabilities means that the components of Snake are flexible,
making possible the existence of the hybrid (kernel-centric and usermode-centric) architectures.
For example, the virtual partitions are used by kernel-centric Snake variants, where the kernel-mode driver is responsible for the
communications. If such a driver is installed via an update, the usermode component can be instructed to delegate the file upload
task to the driver by copying all the necessary logs into the shared virtual partition, physically located on the compromised host and
thus, accessible from kernel.
BAE Systems Applied Intelligence: Snake Rootkit Report 2014 13