Outlook
On October 21, the U.K. National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) and
U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) jointly released an advisory
outlining how the Russian-attributed threat group Turla had coopted two Iranian tools, likely without Iranian knowledge. NCSC and
NSA were able to make the distinction between the Iranian activity
using these tools and the Turla activity on the basis of three factors:

Administration of infrastructure from either Turla or Iranian

associated IP addresses


Turla group scanned for Iranian-associated backdoors


Turla compromised Iranian infrastructure by deploying their


own implants
Turla has been attributed by Estonian intelligence services and the
Czech government to the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB).
The Security Services of Ukraine as well as threat intelligence
researchers have also attributed Gamaredon Group to the FSB.
In our research, we observed significant overlapping operational
infrastructure between Iranian groups APT33, APT35, and
MUDDYWATER. We assess with moderate confidence that all three
groups are likely tied to the IRGC and the continued blurring of TTPs
between the three groups is likely to continue to inhibit clustering
of IRGC-originated threat activity.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-1212 | 3
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
We also uncovered significant overlaps between the operational
infrastructure for the Iran-nexus group and the Gamaredon Group.
The number of overlapping domains indicate our observations are
a key departure from previously reported Gamaredon activity.
This departure was the apparent Middle Eastern targeting, as
Gamaredon have typically targeted Ukrainian interests in the
past. For that reason, we opted for the BlueAlpha designator for
the suspected Russia state-sponsored threat actor. We assess
BlueAlpha and Gamaredon Group are closely aligned groups with
similar TTPs and are both likely tied to Russia’s FSB. Insikt Group
assesses that Russian state-sponsored groups will continue to
conduct cyber operations that use techniques such as false flags
or leverage vulnerable operational infrastructure of other threat
actors in order to obfuscate activity and hinder attribution efforts.
About Recorded Future
Recorded Future arms security teams with the only complete threat intelligence
solution powered by patented machine learning to lower risk. Our technology
automatically collects and analyzes information from an unrivaled breadth of
sources and provides invaluable context in real time and packaged for human
analysis or integration with security technologies.
Recorded Future | www.recordedfuture.com | CTA-2019-1212 | 4