Pterodo/Pteranodon malware
Pterodo malware is a customized remote administration
tool which has a modular structure and covers a wide range of
different functions, namely:
- before performing malware tests the environment in

which it runs and tries to identify Sandboxes;
- downloads and uses additional modules;

 - takes screenshots at a specified frequency;

 - gets access to cameras and a microphone (if available);

- provides the ability to remotely execute commands

within the system;
- checks connected removable data storages and copies

itself on/from for distribution to the systems that are
separated from the Internet.
It is known that the core of Pterodo has been publicly
available on Russian hacker forums from 2016, and one of the
detected modules responsible for decrypting the data was posted
on Github by a user with the nickname "asu2010" and was also
described on the Russian Internet portal Habrahabr.
Pterodo is a type of malware that is designed for Windows
and is aimed at defeating the version from Windows XP to
Windows 10.
Today, Pterodo has changed a lot. During the period of
active monitoring of the group's activities and the results of
cyberattacks investigations, the Security Service of Ukraine has
looked into a large number of malware samples, on the basis of
which it was concluded that several methods of implementation
had changed.
The use of malware Pterodo on continuing basis began in
2017. The main idea of it was making the existing modules
collection and their packaging into the archive. Also, a lure
document was necessarity added to the archive, which is
displayed to the user to hide suspicion of unauthorized actions.
After opening the received application (self-extracting
archive with extension files .dll and .cmd, Figure 5), malicious
modules are downloaded to certain directories and executed in
hidden mode.
Figure 5. A set of malware files in one of the cases
The virus provides the following actions: the virus copies
its files to the operating system startup folders
%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start and
Menu\Programs\Startup, and registers itself in the task scheduler
(Figure 6) in order to wait for action from the command & control
server (C2).
In earlier versions, command & control servers were hardcoded, but from 2019 the SSU noticed additional configuration
files with backup С2 list.
Figure 6. An example which demonstrate unauthorized scheduler task
The algorithm for unpacking, placing files into directories
and their subsequent launch is encoded in a tron.cmd. This file is
a orchestrator which is responsible for managing the entire
package of malicious modules.
The LocalSMS.dll file is a dropper that communicates with
the command & control server and loads other modules. In order
to do that, the information about the computer is collected:
computer name, user list, list of logical drives in the system,
installed updates, etc. All this information is written to a file and
sent to a specific server. In many cases, the malware has the
functionality of dumping credentials for authorization on the
internal proxy server from the OS registry, and its application if
necessary (Figure 7).
Figure 7. Code for dumping proxy credentials
winrestore.dll is a tool responsible for creating and
collecting screenshots.
It should be noted that the set of modules changed with
every new wave of attack, with the expectation of loading the
necessary components after fixing in the system (depending on
current needs). At the same time, the servers are configured in
such way that attempts to load the malware components for
research were unsuccessful, and the server response was 404
Not Found. This is due to additional settings/parameters of the
request (for example, the IP is not in the white list to which you
can download further malware from the link, inappropriate user
agent). This filters computers that are of interest to the attacker.
During the period 2018-2019, together with the SFXarchives, the victims received letters with attached .scr files
(screensaver), which masked the standard .exe extension for
such file types.
This file contains a thematic office document (no macros),
as well as a malware dropper.
The last file is a free WGET console bootloader that
connects to the command server and downloads a new software
module that uses the systeminfo command to generate a list of
required information and the name of the bot generated from the
PC name and logical drive serial number (%computername%
_logicaldiskserial). After sending system information, in response,
the main function modules are loaded, which allow remote
execution of commands. The task scheduler creates a task to
periodically run of the malware in order to have resilience for
rebooting.
Another mechanism for downloading malware modules
was to create an allegedly attached archive file in an email using
HTML, which, when clicked, communicates to a remote server
using a specific download link. Thus, the first-stage malware
was delivered to the victim's information system.
At the same time, it turned out that depending on the
operating system and the transition time, the victim received
different content. On the day of the investigation, before 10 a.m,
the .scr archive was downloaded, and after 11 a.m., the .rar
archive was downloaded from the same link.
At some time, when communication initiates from a mobile
Android device, the user's browser redirected to the phishing page
Google Play http://google-play.serveftp [.]com/ (hosting provider
Expert Llc). However, the download did not take place, and the
page of the real Google market service was opened (Figure 8).
Thus, we can assume the deployment of these resources to
conduct a cybercampaign to compromise mobile terminals.
Figure 8. Content view for mobile devices
During this period, the Security Service of Ukraine also
found some sample files that contained Windows Management
Tools (WMI) commands to determine the location of the
information system, as well as the use of non-numerous scripts
on PowerShell.