Evasive Tactics: Terminator RAT
FireEye Labs has been tracking a variety of advanced persistent threat (APT) actors that have been
slightly changing their tools, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) in order to evade network
defenses. Earlier, we documented changes to Aumlib, the malware used in the attack against the
New York Times, and Taidoor, a malware family that is being used in ongoing cyber-espionage
campaigns particularly against entities in Taiwan. In this post we will explore changes made to
Terminator RAT (Remote Access Tool) by examining a recent attack against entities in Taiwan.
We recently analyzed a sample that we suspect was sent via spear-phishing emails to targets in
Taiwan. As shown in Figure 1, the adversary sends a malicious Word document, “103.doc” (md5:
a130b2e578d82409021b3c9ceda657b7), that exploits CVE-2012-0158, which subsequently drops a
malware installer named “DW20.exe”. This particular malware is interesting because of the
following:
It evades sandbox by terminating and removing itself (DW20.exe) after installing. Malicious
behavior will only appear after reboot.
It deters single-object based sandbox by segregation of roles between collaborating malwares.
The RAT (svchost_.exe) will collaborate with its relay (sss.exe) to communicate with the
command and control server.
It deters forensics investigation by changing the startup location.
It deters file-based scanning that implements a maximum file size filter, by expanding the size
of svchost_.exe to 40MB.
The ultimate payload of the attack is Terminator RAT, which is also known as FakeM RAT . This
RAT does not appear to be exclusively used by a single APT actor, but is most likely being used in a
variety (of possibly otherwise unrelated) campaigns. In the past, this RAT has been used against
Tibetan and Uyghur activists, and we are seeing an increasing number of attacks targeting Taiwan
as well.
However, these attacks use some evasive tactics that demonstrate the evolution of Terminator RAT.
First, the attackers have included a component that relays traffic between the malware and a proxy
server. Second, they have modified the 32-byte magic header that in previous versions attempted to
disguise itself to look like either MSN Messenger, Yahoo! Messenger, or HTML code.
These modifications appear to be an attempt to evade network defenses, perhaps in response to
defender’s increasing knowledge of the indicators of compromise associated with this malware. We
will discuss the individual components of this attack in more detail.
Figure 1