NEW PHASE IN CYBERWAR:
Internet destabilization attacks
May 5, 2019, Palestine. According
to Israeli sources, on May 4, 2019,
hackers from the militant group Hamas
tried to carry out a cyberattack. Israel
declined to reveal the incident details.
To counter the attack, the Israel Defense
Forces launched an airstrike on a building
in the Gaza Strip, where the hackers
headquarters is believed to have been
located.
June 2019, Iran. On June
20, 2019, Iran's Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps (IRGC) shot down
a US drone. The US retaliated a few
days later by launching a cyberattack
on IRGC's missile control systems. Such
an attack requires months of preparation,
which suggests that the systems had
been compromised prior to that.
Disruption of Internet infrastructures,
which nearly all government and private
organizations depend on, is becoming
a dangerous attack vector. The sections
below look at scenarios that have
already been tested and could be used
on a larger scale at government level
in the next year.
Incident in Iran has once again
confirmed the suggestion
that the critical infrastructure
of many countries has already been
compromised, but attackers remain
unnoticed until they act.
In 2019, cybersecurity became a heavily
debated topic in politics. The activities
of cyber armies and the rhetoric
of political leaders around cyberattacks
continue to gain momentum.
March 2019, Venezuela. Sabotage
at the Simón Bolívar Hydroelectric Plant,
also known as the Guri Dam, resulted
in a mass-scale blackout in Caracas
and 22 of all 23 states in the country.
According to TASS, a news agency, the
country’s Communications Minister said
there had been “a cyberattack against
the automated control system”. The
plant was shut down in response to the
attack. Unlike other well-known attacks
on energy companies, this is the first time
that a large part of a country was left
without electricity for several days.
All these cases show that cyberspace
is becoming a battlefield. This trend could
lead to new cyberattacks on military and
government systems in order to disrupt
their work, cause social and economic
damage, and destabilize countries.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 17
DNS HIJACKING AND ATTACKS ON DOMAIN NAME REGISTRARS
The DNS protocol underpins the World
Wide Web and hackers who gain control
over it can be extremely dangerous.
Moreover, carrying out operations using
this protocol does not require having
access to DNS servers.
There are two possible scenarios when
purchasing a domain name:


either the domain registrar
provides DNS server services;


or the registrar provides a domain
name only, with DNS servers being
run by a different provider.


In either scenario, each customer can
specify the following information in their
personal account on the domain name
registrar’s website:


what DNS servers will be responsible
for a particular domain name;


what IP addresses the traffic will
be sent to when there is a request
to access the resources related


to this domain name.
This means that by compromising
a particular domain name registrar,
threat actors can manipulate all domains
registered through that registrar. The
situation is made worse by the fact
that countries usually have only a few
major registrars, which service both
government and private organizations.
Simultaneously hacking several
main registrars will paralyze website,
mail, and DNS servers, as well as all
services connected to them, for most
of the country. If such an attack were
to be conducted in combination with
sabotage activities, restoring the
registrar’s stability and recovering their
configuration would be impossible. The
resulting situation would damage all
industries without exception.
In addition to individual registrars,
attackers could target organizations
that manage country code top-level
domains. Almost every country has this
type of organization. For instance, the
Singapore Network Information Centre
(SGNIC) Pte Ltd is responsible for
Singapore’s domain zone .sg.
Domain name registrars and
organizations responsible for root
domain services have become a new
priority for threat actors. Information
security experts detected several such
incidents in 2019.
The attacks described above
were successful and targeted
individual organizations in both
the government and private
sectors. If threat actors become
set on disrupting national
infrastructures, attacks like these will
have much wider consequences.
[1] https://www.netnod.se/news/statement-on-man-in-the-middle-attack-against-netnod
[2] https://www.zdnet.com/article/hackers-breached-greeces-top-level-domain-registrar
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 18
BGP HIJACKING AND ATTACKS ON INTERNET ROUTING SYSTEMS
Another fundamental routing protocol
is BGP (Border Gateway Protocol).
The idea behind BGP hijacking
is to redirect the network traffic
of certain prefixes of an autonomous
system (IP address pools) through the
threat actor’s equipment. The most
common objective of such attacks
is cyberespionage.
However, network routes can also
be manipulated to disrupt major
telecommunications companies. There
have been many major, publicly shared
incidents (although they were a result
of either human error or misconfiguration
rather than targeted attacks).
NOVEMBER 25, 2018
Krek Ltd, a small-scale Russian
operator, made a mistake in its BGP
configuration, causing 10-20% of
Russian Internet users to lose access
to thousands of services. The failure
lasted for more than an hour and
affected major companies such as
Amazon, YouTube, VK (Russian social
network), ivi.ru (online video streaming
service), and many others. [[1]]
NOVEMBER 2018
MainOne, a Nigerian Internet service
provider, made a configuration mistake
and changed routes in such a way that
traffic to Google services was directed
through China, where it was getting
dropped. A total of 180 prefixes were
affected. It took 74 minutes to fix the
issue after it was detected. During this
time, some Google users experienced
access problems. [[2]]
JUNE 6, 2019
the Swiss company Safe Host (AS21217)
caused a leak of 70,000 routes to
China Telecom (AS4134). The most
heavily affected were Swisscom
(AS3303) based in Switzerland, KPN
(AS1136) based in the Netherlands,
and Bouygues Telecom (AS5410) and
Numericable-SFR (AS21502) based
in France. The incident lasted for two
hours. [[3]]
Another noteworthy example is a 2019
experiment, the aim of which was
to analyze new BGP security features.
It culminated in the failure of routers
of Internet service providers in Asia and
Australia.
BGP ROV
The new BGP Route Origin Validation
(ROV) standard is now part of the
BGP protocol security package,
along with BGP Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI) and BGP Path
Validation (BGPsec). BGP ROV allows
routers to use BGP RPKI information
to filter out unauthorized route
advertisements and prevent BGP
from being intercepted by attackers
intending to redirect traffic from
legitimate servers to malicious ones.
Experts say the problem was that the
BGP attribute they used caused a
crash in the software of the routers
based on FRRouting (FRR)—a set of IP
protocols for Linux and Unix.
The cases described above show
that manipulating traffic does not
require access to the targeted
company’s network hardware. Access
to an area border router is enough
to be able to change the BGP
configuration.
So far, BGP hijacking has had large-scale
but short-term effects. For prolonged
sabotage, threat actors will need to have
both access to the network routers
of several operators as well as preprepared scenarios for manipulating
traffic. In such cases, BGP hijacking could
cause significant network congestion
in some countries (similar to what
happens in energy company networks).
[1] https://radar.qrator.net/blog/no-filters-shoot-your-foot
[2] https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-a-nigerian-isp-knocked-google-offline/
[3] https://www.zdnet.com/article/for-two-hours-a-large-chunk-of-european-mobile-traffic-was-rerouted-through-china/
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 19
ATTACKS ON LOCAL SYSTEMS OF FILTERING
AND BLOCKING TRAFFIC
Some countries have implemented
or are creating filtering systems that
analyze and block certain user traffic.
Such technological solutions facilitate
attacks aimed at blocking the operation
of a network in a particular country.
The attacks summarized below have
been tested by threat actors and may
be conducted on a larger scale in the
future.
Blacklisted resources
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) block
access to harmful websites (terroristrelated, malicious, linked to drug
trafficking, etc.) based on blacklists. The
lists consist of domains, IP addresses, and
links. They are constantly updated so that
malicious resource owners cannot bypass
restrictions.
In cases where operators cannot
deploy DPI (Deep Packet Inspection)
systems, they must restrict traffic based
on IP addresses. Knowing this, attackers
leverage blacklisted domains to block
legitimate resources. Owners of banned
websites list the IP address of a legitimate
webpage in their DNS information, which
leads to providers blocking the legitimate
site. If a blacklisted domain name has
a new legitimate IP, it will automatically
be blocked by the provider.
Since 2017, attackers in Russia have used
this technique to bring down Wikipedia
as well as banking and government
resources. In March 2019, a similar
attack was carried out against the users
of Yandex, a Russian search engine.
This is an easy and cheap way to conduct
cyberattacks. Companies can protect
themselves by introducing a whitelist
of critical resources that must never
be blocked. However, blacklists are
distributed in a centralized manner.
If an attacker gains access to the server
distributing these lists, they will be able
to add any subnet to it.
Traffic decryption
Usually, transmitted content
is encrypted, so some countries
require users to install governmentissued certificates. Once installed, the
certificate helps local government
agencies decrypt user traffic.
Such certificates are issued
by designated centers. Banning
certificates by browser and operating
system would affect all users who have
these certificates installed.
This happened to DarkMatter, a UAEbased cybersecurity company. Google
announced plans to ban root certificates
owned by DarkMatter from Chrome
and Android. Mozilla also announced
that its browser Firefox would not trust
certificates from DarkMatter. In August
2019, Google and Mozilla blocked
a Kazakh government–issued root
certificate used for intercepting traffic.
[1] https://www.netnod.se/news/statement-on-man-in-the-middle-attack-against-netnod
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 20
Throughout the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2019, security experts identified numerous previously unknown statesponsored groups. Many have been conducting operations for several years and have gone unnoticed for a long time. Some groups
attack similar targets, which leads to competition between them and means that their actions are detected quicker.
Windshift
Blue Mushroom
(aka Sapphire Mushroom,
APT-C-12)
Gallmaker
Geographical scope Initial infection
The Middle East
Geographical scope
Geographical scope
The Middle East
Eastern Europe
Tools
Spear phishing
Trusted relationship (social
engineering)
Spear phishing
Drive-by compromise
Tools
WindTail
WindTape
The cyberespionage group WindShift has been flying under the radar for many years thanks to its
distinctive feature—thorough attack preparation.
The attackers created fake user pages on social media (LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,
and Google Plus) and sent friendly messages to potential victims. The interactions lasted from
six months to a year, during which the attackers tricked their victims into divulging valuable
information.
The group mainly targets employees of government agencies and critical infrastructure facilities
in the Middle East. Victims' macOS systems were attacked using crafted malicious programs: OSX.
WindTail.A, OSX.WindTail.B, and OSX.WindTape.
Geographical scope Initial infection
China Spear phishing
SinaAppEngine
ps_backdoor
Geographical scope
Tools
Spear phishing
The group Blue Mushroom (aka Sapphire Mushroom, APT-C-12) has been operating since 2011
but only became known in mid-2018.
Its attacks involve cloud infrastructure. For example, the group uses Amazon S3 and cloud server
communication protocols to exfiltrate confidential user information.
The attackers also use the Digital Ocean cloud service as C&C and the SinaAppEngine (SAE)
service to create their own C&C infrastructure.
Initial infection
Metasploit
Gallmaker has been operating since at least December 2017 but was only discovered in 2018.
To compromise systems, attackers exploit the Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) feature in Word
applications. The DDE protocol is used to exchange information between Office programs that
use shared data or a shared memory.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 22
Imminent Monitor RAT
Tools
Spear phishing
APT-C-36
(aka Blind Eagle)
Whitefly
HEXANE
(aka LYCEUM)
Unidentified
group
Geographical scope Initial infection
Colombia Spear phishing
Geographical scope
APT-C-36 (aka Blind Eagle) is a threat actor originating from South America that became known
in late 2018. Its goal is to steal trade secrets from major companies and government agencies; its
main infection vector is malicious emails. To hide the sender’s IP address, the threat actor uses
proxy and VPN services.
Geographical scope
Southeast Asia
Russia
Mimikatz
Trojan.Vcrodat
Termite
Nibatad
Initial infection
Tools
Spear phishing
Security specialists first detected Whitefly in 2018 after an attack on Singapore’s largest public
health organization, SingHealth, which resulted in a reported 1.5 million patient records being
stolen.
The group has gone unnoticed since 2017. They mainly target companies based in Singapore.
Tools
DanBot
PoshC2
PowerShell Empire
Geographical scope
The Middle East
Central Asia
Africa
Initial infection
Supply chain attack
Spear phishing
Password spraying
HEXANE is a new group targeting the industrial sector. Its members have been active since mid2018, focusing on the Middle East, Central Asia, and Africa.
Geographical scope Initial infection
Central Asia —
TajMahal
Geographical scope
Tools
—
In the fall of 2018, reports revealed a newly discovered sophisticated APT framework, TajMahal.
It has been used for at least 5 years, but it remains unclear to which group the tool belongs.
The framework consists of two packages named Tokyo and Yokohama and contains around
80 malicious modules. The tool is designed to conduct cyberespionage campaigns, but the list
of confirmed victims only contains one: a diplomatic entity from a country in Central Asia.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 23
SUPPLY CHAIN ATTACKS
Last year’s Group-IB Hi-Tech Crime
Trends report identified BIOS/UEFI
attacks as one of the most prominent
trends. Experts predicted that the
main targets would likely be firmware
and motherboard developers based
mainly in the APAC region, where
large companies have their production
facilities.
Winnti attacks on hardware
manufacturers and game
developers
A few months after Group-IB's report was
released, its prediction was confirmed
by news about a malware campaign
called Operation ShadowHammer. [[1]]
To deliver malware, attackers leveraged
the legitimate utility ASUS Live
Update, which automatically updates
components such as BIOS, UEFI, drivers,
and applications.
The trojanized utility was signed with
the legitimate certificate “ASUSTeK
Computer Inc.” and was hosted on the
official ASUS server.
Similar malware delivery techniques
were used to infect software belonging
to three other manufacturers, whose
names were not disclosed. The attacks,
conducted for espionage purposes, are
linked to the Chinese group Winnti.
[1] https://securelist.com/operation-shadowhammer/89992/
In addition to equipment manufacturers,
the same group successfully attacked
the gaming industry. In total, two games
and one gaming platform were infected.
One of the affected gaming companies
is located in Thailand.
Plead (aka BlackTech) campaigns:
Focus on Taiwan
In July 2018, cybersecurity experts
discovered a new malware campaign
involving the Plead backdoor, which
was digitally signed using a valid D-Link
Corporation code-signing certificate.
At the end of April 2019, the experts
identified multiple attempts to deploy
the same malware in an unusual way.
The Plead backdoor was created and
executed by a legitimate process named
AsusWSPanel.exe. The executable file
was digitally signed by ASUS Cloud
Corporation. Plead malware has always
been most widely deployed in Taiwan.
Unsuccessful attack on vendors
of software for developers
In 2019, an attack on an international
vendor of development tools for various
programming languages was discovered.
The attackers compromised the
company's infrastructure and accessed
the Docker containers used to build
the software, after which they were
discovered. Allegedly, they planned
to inject malicious code into legitimate
programs at the assembly stage.
Chinese group attacks through
Hewlett Packard (HP) and IBM
In December 2018, Chinese attackers
reportedly infiltrated the networks
of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE)
and IBM as part of the Cloudhopper
campaign. By gaining access to the
networks, they were subsequently able
to hack into computers belonging to HPE
and IBM clients.
Cloudhopper compromised client
data in 12 countries, including Brazil,
Germany, India, Japan, the United Arab
Emirates, Great Britain, and the United
States. The clients were from industries
such as finance, electronics, medical
equipment, biotechnology, automotive,
mining, and oil and gas.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 24
HACKING BACK
“Hacking back” is a controversial method
that helps victims of cyberattacks take
a more proactive approach to deterring
cyberthreats. The question of whether
private companies can legally conduct
such operations has been discussed for
years. Today, hacking back is allowed only
in the case of national security services.
In 2019, there were more instances when
information about tools used by attackers
was made public as part of retaliatory
attacks.
In March 2019, the Telegram channel
Lab Dookhtegan posted tool source
codes used by the Iranian group OilRig
(APT34) and data about its members.
The information included the identities
of hacked victims as well as the
names, surnames, and social media
profiles of supposedly active group
members, including leaders. A user
with the nickname "Lab Dookhtegan"
claims to be a former member
of OilRig and to have worked on the
group's DNSpionage campaign.
The published hacking tools include:


Glimpse (a new version of a PowerShell
Trojan, which Palo Alto Networks
named BondUpdater);


PoisonFrog (an old version
of BondUpdater);


HyperShell (a web shell that Palo
Alto Networks called TwoFace);


HighShell (another web shell);


Fox Panel (a phishing kit);


Webmask (the main tool involved
in the DNSpionage campaign).


Published data about 66 victims was
collected in some of APT34's backend
command-and-control (C&C) servers
and contained credentials from internal
servers and user IP addresses. This victim
list mainly includes companies and
organizations in the Middle East, Africa,
East Asia, and Europe.
Lab Dookhtegan also leaked data
about past APT34 operations, listing
IP addresses and domains where the
group had hosted web shells and other
operational data. As of April 18, 2019,
researchers were aware of 125 web shells.
In June, researchers reported an attack
on a Middle East organization conducted
by the group Turla in January 2018.
Threat actors used OilRig (Iran)
infrastructure to download a customized
[1] https://content.fireeye.com/apt-41/rpt-apt41
variant of Mimikatz—which is unique
to Turla (Russia)—to the victim’s device.
As occurred in the OilRig (APT34)
case, a Telegram channel was used
to leak data about another Iran-nexus
group, MuddyWater. The data leaked
included information about the source
code of a tool written in Python and its
C&C servers.
This tool is designed to generate
a payload embedded in a macro.
Once the macro is executed, the
victim's computer connects to the
C&C server and downloads additional
modules. This tool also delivers a second
stage payload, e.g. .sct, .hta, and
PowerShell.
In June 2018, the United States imposed
sanctions against the Russian research
institute Quantum, a contractor for
FSB, the Russian intelligence service.
In December 2018, the group Digital
Revolution published data stolen from
Quantum. In July 2019, hackers breached
SyTech, another FSB contractor, and
shared the exfiltrated data about
the company’s internal projects and
screenshots of SyTech's servers with
Digital Revolution. The latter released
this information online.
In August 2018, the group Intrusion Truth
revealed the identities of individuals
it claimed were members of the Chinese
hacking group APT10. In July 2019, the
same group shared details of individuals
thought to be members of the Chinabacked group APT17.
In August 2019, FireEye released an indepth report about the APT41 group
during the BlackHat conference. APT41
seems to have several ties with APT17,
which is why experts believe that these
threat actors are in fact the same group
(called Winnti or BARIUM).
CODE FAMILY OVERLAP AMONG DIFFERENT CHINESE ESPIONAGE GROUPS [[1]]
Malware APT1 APT3 APT10 APT17 APT18 APT19 APT40 APT41
BLACKCOFFEE
CHINACHOP
COLDJAVA
HIGHNOON
HIGHNOON.BIN
HIGHNOON.LITE
HOMEUNIX
JUMPALL
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 25