IRAN
Following these
disruptive incidents,
tracked adversaries
responded in a variety
of ways, including
adopting changes in
TTPs, scaling back
activity or continuing
to operate with largely
unchanged behavior.
Iranian state-nexus targeted intrusion activity in 2019 was broadly consistent in
tempo and targeting, despite several key events that appeared to cause limited
gaps in the operations of specific adversaries. These disruptions included a
range of purported hacktivist leaks on the activity, tools and personnel of three
separate state-nexus adversaries, as well as industry and government publications
identifying that one of those adversaries previously had been compromised by
a Russian state-nexus adversary. Following these disruptive incidents, tracked
adversaries responded in a variety of ways, including adopting changes in TTPs,
scaling back activity or continuing to operate with largely unchanged behavior.
Notable changes in TTPs included an increased reliance on social media for
reconnaissance and initial payload delivery, use of employment-themed lure
content and a greater attention to operational security in the crafting of payloads
and structure of malware C2 channels.
While activity earlier in the year focused on countries in the Middle East and
North Africa (MENA) region, the latter half of 2019 saw a pronounced shift in
targeting toward entities in the U.S., likely in response to an extended spike in
tension between Iran and the U.S. over events in the Persian Gulf that began in
May 2019. Other relevant incidents included a domestic internet shutdown in Iran
beginning in November 2019 in response to a large-scale outbreak of protests
across the country following a government decision to increase the price of fuel.
This was accompanied by allegations of a widespread campaign by the regime
targeting protesters, journalists and dissidents across social media and encrypted
messaging platforms.
Industry reporting described Iran’s continuing deployment of destructive malware,
namely wipers, against specific entities in the Middle East region. However, these
activities appeared to be limited in scale compared to past Iran-nexus destructive
operations utilizing the Shamoon wiper, and they could not be attributed to Iran with
the same confidence or detail as past destructive activities.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020