Salmon Typhoon
Salmon Typhoon (SODIUM) is a sophisticated Chinese state-affiliated threat actor with a
history of targeting US defense contractors, government agencies, and entities within the
cryptographic technology sector. This threat actor has demonstrated its capabilities
through the deployment of malware, such as Win32/Wkysol, to maintain remote access to
compromised systems. With over a decade of operations marked by intermittent periods
of dormancy and resurgence, Salmon Typhoon has recently shown renewed activity.
Salmon Typhoon overlaps with the threat actor tracked by other researchers as APT4 and
Maverick Panda.
Notably, Salmon Typhoon’s interactions with LLMs throughout 2023 appear exploratory
and suggest that this threat actor is evaluating the effectiveness of LLMs in sourcing
information on potentially sensitive topics, high profile individuals, regional geopolitics, US
influence, and internal affairs. This tentative engagement with LLMs could reflect both a
broadening of their intelligence-gathering toolkit and an experimental phase in assessing
the capabilities of emerging technologies.
Based on these observations, we map and classify these TTPs using the following
descriptions:
LLM-informed reconnaissance: Engaging LLMs for queries on a diverse array of
subjects, such as global intelligence agencies, domestic concerns, notable
individuals, cybersecurity matters, topics of strategic interest, and various threat
actors. These interactions mirror the use of a search engine for public domain
research.
LLM-enhanced scripting techniques: Using LLMs to identify and resolve coding
errors. Requests for support in developing code with potential malicious intent were
observed by Microsoft, and it was noted that the model adhered to established
ethical guidelines, declining to provide such assistance.
LLM-refined operational command techniques: Demonstrating an interest in
specific file types and concealment tactics within operating systems, indicative of an
effort to refine operational command execution.
LLM-aided technical translation and explanation: Leveraging LLMs for the
translation of computing terms and technical papers.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2024/02/14/staying-ahead-of-threat-actors-in-the-age-of-ai/ 7/9
2/20/24, 2:27 PM Staying ahead of threat actors in the age of AI | Microsoft Security Blog
Salmon Typhoon’s engagement with LLMs aligns with patterns observed by Microsoft,
reflecting traditional behaviors in a new technological arena. In response, all accounts
and assets associated with Salmon Typhoon have been disabled.
In closing, AI technologies will continue to evolve and be studied by various threat actors.
Microsoft will continue to track threat actors and malicious activity misusing LLMs, and
work with OpenAI and other partners to share intelligence, improve protections for
customers and aid the broader security community.