How Whitefly compromises its victims
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/whitefly-espionage-singapore 1/4
3/7/2019 Whitefly: Espionage Group has Singapore in Its Sights | Symantec Blogs
Whitefly first infects its victims using a dropper in the form of a malicious .exe or .dll file that
is disguised as a document or image. These files frequently purport to offer information on
job openings or appear to be documents sent from another organization operating in the
same industry as the victim. Given the nature of disguise, it’s highly likely that they are sent
to the victim using spear-phishing emails.
If opened, the dropper runs a loader known as Trojan.Vcrodat on the computer. Whitefly
has consistently used a technique known as search order hijacking to run Vcrodat. This
technique takes advantage of the fact that Windows does not require an application to
provide a specific path for a DLL that it wishes to load. If no path is provided, Windows
searches for the DLL in specific locations on the computer in a pre-defined order. Attackers
can therefore give a malicious DLL the same name as a legitimate DLL but place it ahead
of the legitimate version in the search order so that it will be loaded when Windows
searches for it. Whitefly frequently delivers Vcrodat as a malicious DLL that has the same
name as DLLs belonging to legitimate software from various security vendors. The group
leverages search order hijacking to assure that its malicious DLLs will be executed.
Targeting security applications could allow the attackers to gain higher privileges for the
malware, since the vendor’s component may be run with elevated privileges.
Once executed, Vcrodat loads an encrypted payload on to the victim’s computer. The
payload contacts a command and control (C&C) domain. Whitefly configures multiple C&C
domains for each target. The payload sends system information about the infected
computer to the C&C server and downloads additional tools.
Whitefly usually attempts to remain within a targeted organization for long periods of time—
often months—in order to steal large volumes of information.
Once the initial computer on the targeted organization’s network is infected with Vcrodat,
Whitefly begins mapping the network and infecting further computers. In order to carry out
this operation, it uses publicly available tools, including Mimikatz (Hacktool.Mimikatz) and
an open-source tool (SHA2:
263dc5a8121d20403beeeea452b6f33d51d41c6842d9d19919def1f1cb13226c) that exploits
a known Windows privilege escalation vulnerability (CVE-2016-0051) on unpatched
computers. The attackers rely heavily on tools such as Mimikatz to obtain credentials.
Using these credentials, the attackers are able to compromise more machines on the
network and, from those machines, again obtain more credentials. They perform this tactic
repeatedly until they gain access to the desired data.
Whitefly usually attempts to remain within a targeted organization for long periods of time—
often months—in order to steal large volumes of information. It keeps the compromise alive
by deploying a number of tools that facilitate communication between the attackers and
infected computers. These tools include a simple remote shell tool that will call back to the
C&C server and wait for commands, and an open-source hacking tool called Termite
(Hacktool.Rootkit), which allows Whitefly to perform more complex actions such as
controlling multiple compromised machines at a time.