Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Early Activities and Operations Development
Early APT38 operations suggest that the group
began targeting financial institutions with an intent to
manipulate financial transaction systems at least as
early as February 2014, although we did not observe
fraudulent transactions until 2015. These activities
provide some indication of a learning period that would
inform the development of TTPs later definitive of
APT38 activity.

We do not have evidence that the earliest targeted

financial institutions were victimized by fraudulent
transactions before APT38 left the compromised
environments, possibly indicating that APT38 was
conducting reconnaissance-only activity at that time.

Initial operations targeted Southeast Asian financial

institutions most likely because North Korea had
better access to money laundering network in these
countries.

In early 2014, the group deployed NESTEGG (a

backdoor) and KEYLIME (a keylogger) malware
designed to impact financial institution-specific
systems at a Southeast Asian bank. There is no
evidence that these tools were used to target SWIFT
systems at the time, even though the victimized bank
used SWIFT. These factors most likely indicate that
APT38 was still learning about various systems related
to financial transactions.

Details published by DOJ indicate that malware

developers read user manuals for SWIFT systems,
providing some indication of initial efforts to develop
SWIFT-specific malware, such as DYEPACK. The
earlier observed deployment of DYEPACK was in
December 2015.
Based on observed incidents, we believe APT38
activities were initially clustered in Southeast Asia as the
group built up its capabilities before expanding globally
shortly after.

Targeting in Southeast Asia likely spanned from

February 2014 to late 2017.

Expansion into other regions, such as Latin America

and Africa, began in early to mid-2016. Latin American
organizations have continued to be targeted into at
least May 2018.

APT38 operations extended to Europe and North

America from approximately October 2016 to October
2017.
stolen funds. This adds to the complexity and necessary
coordination amongst multiple components supporting
APT38 operations.
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 16
A Modern Bank Heist at a Glance
At a high level, APT38's targeting of financial organizations and subsequent heist attempts have followed the same
general pattern, as depicted in Figure 5 and explained below.
Figure 5. An APT38 cyber bank robbery
Information
Gathering
APT38
Compromise
Vulnerable
Server
Target Personnel or
Third Party vendor
3
Reconnaissance
Target
Organization
Pivot to
SWIFT Servers
Bank Accounts SWIFT System
SPECIAL REPORT | APT38: UN-USUAL SUSPECTS 17