Notable Activity
as terminating processes, logging off users, and rebooting victim machines.
A full command shell is also provided through access to a cmd.exe process,
which sends output to the PlugX instance over named pipes for onward relay
to the attacker’s Command-and-Control (C2) servers.
While these capabilities are not unusual for a RAT and are comparable to
those provided by Poison Ivy and other tools, PlugX also offers a range of C2
protocols and execution options that help reduce the risk of being detected
by network defenders. Over time, these capabilities have been augmented
with additional releases of versions and plugins, which have in turn been
deployed by adversaries in active and ongoing campaigns. For example,
GOBLIN PANDA has been observed using PlugX with internal version
numbers of 20140101 in campaigns since Q2 2014, migrating to deployments
of 20140606 versions in the second half of the year.
PlugX is most frequently delivered to targets via a spear phishing attack
containing a malicious RTF or Word document leveraging exploit code
for the popular CVE-2012-0158 vulnerability. Some adversary groups also
attempted to leverage the CVE-2014-1761 vulnerability as a way to maximize
the chance of exploitation against more recently patched systems, with
varying degrees of success.
Attacks have also been identified using PowerPoint and Excel file formats, as
well as self-extracting RAR files and plain executables as email attachments.
However PlugX is installed on a victim machine, typically three files are
dropped on the file system after exploitation to enable initial start-up of
the malware: a legitimate, digitally signed application; an encrypted file
containing the PlugX payload; and a malicious, dynamically-linked library
that is used to load the malware using the Dynamic Link Library (DLL)
side-loading technique when the legitimate application is executed. This
methodology can provide a level of protection against some threat detection
techniques employed by anti-virus software packages, as the parent process
is a non-malicious executable. Often, a computer security tool such as a
component of a commercial anti-virus application is used for this purpose,
likely to take advantage of any process whitelisting strategies that may be in
place on a network.
23