Conclusions
Examination of China’s AI/ML research and computer network
operations to date demonstrates that six key universities play a
major role in not only building technical competencies, but also in
moving the research out of the lab and operationalizing it.
Research currently conducted at these six universities
demonstrates interest in both sides of the AI/ML and cybersecurity
divide—ML-based offensive and defensive techniques, and the
attack and defense of AI systems themselves. In addition to
technical research from all six institutions, two of the schools
published high-level strategic papers on the intersection of
machine learning and cybersecurity. Xidian University’s paper,
funded by the Key State Laboratory for Information Security
Unclassified Projects Fund, conducted a wide-ranging review of
current (2018) research, determining machine learning could make
a significant impact on vulnerability discovery and exploitation. [114]
The conclusions of that paper were reiterated in an MSS
publication written by faculty from Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
where affiliated programs are conducting research on AI-based
vulnerability discovery and “APT attack and defense.” [115] The state
of technical research in China is such that work on machine
learning and computer network operations has moved from the
research lab to strategic policy publications.
The close relationships between universities and the state shortens
the path to operationalizing new techniques and provides the
security services quick access to talented researchers. As nations
and organizations deploy AI systems with unknown vulnerabilities,
China’s hacking teams will have new avenues of attack.
Conversely, China’s government and private sector will also seek to
defend their own systems. Enhanced protection of China’s
computer networks and AI systems will be at least one outcome of
conducting this research. Though research benefits both offensive
and defensive applications, the relationships of these institutions
with the security services augur the use of such knowledge in
future hacking operations.
Center for Security and Emerging Technology | 25