A strategic document regarding the creation of Rana
First stage – the need for Rana
According to the document the leader of Iran it is vital to develop and expand the country's intelligence gathering
and cyber capabilities (developing malware and viruses, various systems, etc.). Accordingly, they created a
specialized cyber espionage unite that also had the objective of protected the regime if need be.
Second stage – Rana's objectives


Propagating the Islamic culture and its ideas.


Obtaining and providing the leader with strategic intelligence.


Develop technological knowledge and capabilities.


Conducting a cyber and intelligence warfare with the rest of the world.


Utilizing Iranian experts, particularity members of universities in Tehran, as consultants on matters of info
security.


Using these new skills and capabilities to promote and achieve the government's objective.


Obtaining intelligence of value to various governmental departments and industrial sectors (note that the


Department of Defense oversees the Iranian industrial-defense complex rather than the military).

These objectives are then followed by more specific goals related to the Iranian population, including

expanding the intelligence gathering operation within the country by hacking Iranian universities, mobile
companies, airports, etc. (note – it is unclear however the document possibly also refers to Iranian
individuals who have contacts to people outside of the country).
Rana sub-group – trojan and malware teams
The objective of this sub-group is hacking, developing malware and attack tools, establishing and maintaining
foothold on compromised networks, etc. One other objective is using malwares to identify anyone who poses a
threat to the regime such as riot leaders.
The members of the group are experts in IT, encryptions algorithms, firmware, malware and virus development.
Further, they are fluent in various foreign languages.
The group can be categorized to several teams:


Linux.


Viruses (likely Microsoft based however this is unclear).


MAC OS.


Mobile.


© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
The content of the document is solely for internal use. Distributing the report outside of recipient organization is not permitted.
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 5 of 14

Networks and web development.

From the documents it appears that the Networks and web development are knowledgeable in the following
systems and languages:


HTML, HTML5, CSS.


PHP, Python, SCALA, RUBY AND RAILS, SPT, .NET.


Javascript.


SQL server, Mysql, Oracle, Nosql.


From the documents it appears that other than IT skills, the mobile team is knowledgeable and has development
skills in the following mobile operating systems:


Android OS.


IOS.


Windows Mobile.

