Executive summary
Welcome to the latest issue of the ESET APT Activity Report!
This report summarizes the activities of selected advanced persistent
threat (APT) groups that were observed, investigated, and analyzed
by ESET researchers from April 2023 until the end of September 2023.
In the monitored timespan, we observed a notable strategy of APT
groups utilizing the exploitation of known vulnerabilities to exfiltrate
data from governmental entities or related organizations. Russia-aligned
Sednit and Sandworm, North Korea-aligned Konni, and geographically
unattributed Winter Vivern and Sturgeon Phisher seized the opportunity
to exploit vulnerabilities in WinRAR (Sednit, SturgeonPhisher, and
Konni), Roundcube (Sednit and Winter Vivern), Zimbra (Winter Vivern),
and Outlook for Windows (Sednit) to target various governmental
organizations in Ukraine, Europe, and Central Asia. Regarding China
aligned threat actors, GALLIUM probably exploited weaknesses in
Microsoft Exchange servers or IIS servers, extending its targeting from
telecommunications operators to government organizations around
the world; MirrorFace probably exploited vulnerabilities in the Proself
online storage service; and TA410 probably exploited flaws in the Adobe
ColdFusion application server.
Iran- and Middle East-aligned groups continued to operate at
high volume, primarily focusing on espionage and data theft from
organizations in Israel. Notably, Iran-aligned MuddyWater also targeted
an unidentified entity in Saudi Arabia, deploying a payload that suggests
the possibility of this threat actor serving as an access development
team for a more advanced group.
The prime target of Russia-aligned groups remained Ukraine, where
we discovered new versions of the known wipers RoarBat and
NikoWiper, and a new wiper we named SharpNikoWiper, all deployed
by Sandworm. Interestingly, while other groups – such as Gamaredon,
GREF, and SturgeonPhisher – target Telegram users to try to exfiltrate
information or at least some Telegram-related metadata, Sandworm
uses this service for active measure purposes, advertising its cyber
sabotage operations. However, Gamaredon remained the most active
group in Ukraine, significantly enhancing its data-collecting capabilities
by redeveloping existing tools and deploying new ones.
North Korea-aligned groups continued to focus on Japan, South
Korea, and South Korea-focused entities, employing carefully crafted
spearphishing emails. The most active Lazarus scheme observed was
Operation DreamJob, luring targets with fake job offers for lucrative
positions. This group consistently demonstrated its capability to create
malware for all major desktop platforms. Finally, our researchers
uncovered the operations of three previously unidentified China-aligned
groups: DigitalRecyclers, repeatedly compromising a governmental
organization in the EU; TheWizards, conducting adversary-in-the
middle attacks; and PerplexedGoblin, targeting another government
organization in the EU.
ESET APT Activity Reports contain only a fraction of the cybersecurity
intelligence data provided to customers of ESET’s private APT reports.
ESET researchers prepare in-depth technical reports and frequent
activity summaries detailing activities of specific APT groups, in the
form of ESET APT Reports PREMIUM, to help organizations tasked with
protecting citizens, critical national infrastructure, and high-value assets
from criminal and nation-state-directed cyberattacks. Comprehensive
descriptions of activities described in this document were therefore
previously provided exclusively to our premium customers. More
information about ESET APT Reports PREMIUM and its delivery of
high-quality, strategic, actionable, and tactical cybersecurity threat
.
intelligence is available at the ESET Threat Intelligence page
ESET products protect our customers’ systems from the malicious
activities described in this report. Intelligence shared here is based
mostly on proprietary ESET telemetry data and has been verified by
ESET researchers.
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary     Targeted countries and verticals     China     India     Iran     Middle East     North Korea     Russia     Other     About ESET APRIL - SEPTEMBER | 4