8. Conclusion: Dual-Use Technology, Unrestrained
Deep packet inspection technology is now ubiquitous across network environments. DPI
devices supporting network injection can be used by ISPs for a range of ostensibly
legitimate uses, from alerting users to billing issues to bandwidth cap limits — all broadly
marketed under the rubric of what DPI companies refer to benignly as “Quality of
Service” or “Quality of Experience.” However, as our investigation demonstrates, network
injection can also be used for harmful purposes. Depending on how DPI systems are
configured, they may even present serious human rights risks, such as censoring access to
content or, worse, silently infecting users with malware, and all without the person
affected by the censorship or targeted by the malware realizing what has occurred.
Evidently, the technology can also be easily repurposed for mass-scale revenue scams.
Despite the risks of harms and abuses, the market for this powerful technology remains
largely unregulated. Export controls that were agreed upon within the framework of the
Wassenaar Arrangement explicitly exclude “systems or equipment, specially designed for
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 31/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
. . . a. Marketing purpose; b. Network Quality of Service (QoS); or c. Quality of Experience
(QoE)” from the scope of controlled IP network communications surveillance systems or
equipment. Yet the integration of functions, including network injection, in a
customizable, multipurpose network solution raises difficult questions regarding end use
determinations and proper methods for prevention of misuse of the technology.
Regardless of the specific business sector, all companies have a responsibility to prevent
the misuse of their products and services in ways that undermine human rights. The UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights note that businesses should “avoid
causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts” and “address such impacts
when they occur.” Moreover, the UN Guiding Principles clarify that companies should
“seek to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts that are directly linked to their
operations, products or services by their business relationships, even if they have not
contributed to those impacts.” As described in this report, however, Sandvine appears to
have provided such tools in Turkey and Egypt — two countries with documented poor
human rights records — and may have serviced these tools on the ground as well.
Additionally, prior reporting of internal company discussions at Procera Networks show
clearly that concerns were raised inside the company about equipping the Turkish regime
with technology that could be used for surveillance. The company is or should be aware of
the potential for misuse of its product in Turkey. Despite the human rights concerns
raised, Sandvine/Procera evidently chose to move ahead with provision of technology to
Turkey.
The apparent use of Sandvine technology to engage in network injection in Egypt and
Turkey is even more troubling in light of the “strong safeguards” that Sandvine asserts it
maintains “regarding social responsibility, human rights, and privacy rights.” Sandvine
appears to have technical means in place to prevent misuse of its technology, noting in its
February 16 letter that it “implements stringent software license controls that limit access
to specific product capabilities outside of an intended use case.” The malicious and
dubious activities that appear to have been conducted through the use of PacketLogic
devices as documented in this report suggest that Sandvine’s safeguards have come up
short — despite the Procera controversy over dealings in Turkey that was publicly
reported in 2016, which put the company on notice of the potential human rights impact
of sales and services in Turkey. We recommend that Sandvine engage in regular
consultation with civil society regarding its human rights due diligence and business
ethics program, and enhance transparency surrounding its sales review process and postsale technical controls. We also recommend that Sandvine establish an operational-level
grievance mechanism, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights, to address incidents of misuse of its products, and clearly communicate to the
public how to report concerns, the timeframe in which one can expect to receive a 13
response, and remedial action taken.
We recommend that both dual-use technology developers and investors carefully consider
their human rights policies and due diligence practices in light of the changing regulatory
and social landscape and growing expectations surrounding corporate social
https://citizenlab.ca/2018/03/bad-traffic-sandvines-packetlogic-devices-deploy-government-spyware-turkey-syria/ 32/38
6/30/2020 BAD TRAFFIC: Sandvine’s PacketLogic Devices Used to Deploy Government Spyware in Turkey and Redirect Egyptian Users to Affiliate Ads?
responsibility. Francisco Partners in particular appears to have targeted dual-use
technology companies as a lucrative sector for investment, given the company’s prior
investment in companies such as Blue Coat and NSO Group. Proactive efforts within the
firm to incorporate and promote human rights due diligence, as Francisco Partners
touched on in its correspondence, could help address the risks of abuse present in this
sector. We recommend that Francisco Partners publicly release its own corporate social
responsibility policies and practices, as well as those that it promotes among its
investment companies, and engage with civil society in a transparent manner regarding
how those policies and practices could be improved. We also recommend that
government entities, including the newly established Canadian Ombudsperson for
Responsible Enterprise (which would have jurisdiction over Sandvine as a corporation
based in Canada), consider the significant human rights implications of network tools
capable of network injection in responding to the lack of oversight, transparency, and
accountability in the surveillance market.
The findings of this report also illustrate the urgent need for ubiquitous adoption of
HTTPS by website developers. Handling web traffic over unencrypted channels leaves
users vulnerable to network injection techniques that may expose them to spyware,
unwanted advertising, or other Internet scams. Particularly on sites offering software
downloads (some of which may be billed as “secure”), companies and developers
responsible for such platforms must ensure the proper use of encryption.Ultimately, the
use of products that provide network injection features on public ISP networks, as
identified in this report, represents a major global public safety risk. Network injection
can be used to take advantage of access to a user’s unencrypted web traffic to replace
expected data with malicious or inappropriate code, often in a manner undetectable to the
average user. Francisco Partners’ recent acquisition of Sandvine is especially troubling in
this regard, since the investment firm’s portfolio also includes NSO Group, one of the
world’s leading providers of spyware whose products are associated with numerous cases
of abuse. The prospect of such powerhouse surveillance technologies being sold to
companies operating in autocratic regimes, or autocratic regimes themselves, and in
jurisdictions wherein human rights are flagrantly abused, should be cause for concern.