Looking Forward
two-factor authentication will be more widely deployed across
enterprise and cloud services, which will hopefully hamper the
effectiveness of credential and banking phishing operations.

Adversaries are constantly advancing their capabilities; overseas,

cryptography and its application has continued to dominate the
technology news, beginning with revelations from the Snowden
leaks. CrowdStrike assesses it is possible that adversaries will
deploy more sophisticated encryption and key agreement
schemes to hamper interception by security professionals and
intelligence services.

In 2015, a number of sandboxes using hypervisor introspection

will become available, both commercially and in open source.
Introspection allows a sandbox to instrument a virtual machine
through the hypervisor; this provides additional stealth to the
sandbox, allowing it to avoid detection. It remains to be seen
whether malware authors will completely cease their efforts to
detect traditional sandboxing solution and/or whether they will try
to subvert introspection-based sandboxes. Given the difficulty in
detection, and the speed at which new technologies are adopted,
it is likely that adversaries will continue to detect traditional
sandboxes in 2015, with more advanced adversaries exploring
techniques to identify or evade introspection-based systems.

Embedded devices, regardless of whether they are home routers

or industrial control systems, will be increasingly targeted. One
of the primary factors impacting this belief is the increasing pace
of vulnerability disclosures in the embedded space and in the
underlying software they leverage. The increasing prevalence and
popularity of Internet of Things (IoT) devices, discussed in more
detail below, is another factor in this likely targeting. This targeting
will likely occur across a variety of threat actors. In 2014, we saw
the compromise of home router technology used to build an
embedded proxy layer used to mask the identity of the attacker.
63