Mitigations
Apply these mitigations to reduce the impact of this threat. Check the recommendations card for the deployment status of monitored
mitigations.
Turn on cloud-delivered protection in Microsoft Defender Antivirus or the equivalent for your antivirus product to cover rapidly
evolving attacker tools and techniques. Cloud-based machine learning protections block a huge majority of new and unknown
variants.
Run EDR in block mode so that Microsoft Defender for Endpoint can block malicious artifacts, even when your non-Microsoft
antivirus doesn’t detect the threat or when Microsoft Defender Antivirus is running in passive mode. (EDR in block mode works
behind the scenes to remediate malicious artifacts that are detected post-breach.)
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/05/27/new-sophisticated-email-based-attack-from-nobelium/ 11/16
5/31/2021 New sophisticated email-based attack from NOBELIUM - Microsoft Security
Enable network protection to prevent applications or users from accessing malicious domains and other malicious content on the
internet.
Enable investigation and remediation in full automated mode to allow Microsoft Defender for Endpoint to take immediate action
on alerts to resolve breaches, significantly reducing alert volume.
Use device discovery to increase your visibility into your network by finding unmanaged devices on your network and onboarding
them to Microsoft Defender for Endpoint.
Enable multifactor authentication (MFA) to mitigate compromised credentials. Microsoft strongly encourages all customers
download and use passwordless solutions like Microsoft Authenticator to secure your accounts.
For Office 365 users, see multifactor authentication support.
For Consumer and Personal email accounts, see how to use two-step verification.
Turn on the following attack surface reduction rule to block or audit activity associated with this threat: Block all Office
applications from creating child processes . NOTE: Assess rule impact before deployment.