Related Samples
We found several Microsoft Office® files containing variants of the GHOLE malware family that were used to
infect machines. As the Excel spreadsheet used in this campaign is disguised to look relevant and important,
users were prompted to open it and execute the embedded macro. The use of macros to infect computers is
deemed amateur. This shows that there is a gap between the maturity of the malware, which is good enough
for its purpose, and the way it is delivered, which raises questions about the attackers’ professional capacity.
We decided to look at the spear-phishing attempts from a wider perspective and analyzed more samples from
this malware family. Based on available evidence, only the Rocket Kitten group is known to have used GHOLE
in the attacks related to Operation Woolen-GoldFish. It is interesting to note that the GHOLE malware is in fact
a modified CORE IMPACT® product. CORE IMPACT is a sophisticated penetration-testing tool from CORE, a
legitimate company. [4]
Sample content from a malicious Office file after
running the macro; the content is common and
publicly available on the Internet
Sample content from malicious Microsoft Office files;
the attacker needs the user to enable the macro to
infect the computer
3 | Page © 2015 Trend Micro Incorporated
Operation WOOLEN-GOLDFISH Research Paper
After studying the sample infected and dropped files, we established a timeline using the dates when the
executable files were compiled. This timeline should be reliable unless the attackers played with the time
stamps, which would be surprising in this campaign since all binary compilation dates fit quite well with the
spear-phishing attacks.
As is often the case with malware families specifically used in targeted attacks, there are actually very few
different samples in the wild, compared with traditional cybercrime malware.
Number of malware samples compiled
The Microsoft Office files used by the attackers to infiltrate their targets’ networks are also very interesting
because they contain metadata. Metadata can be defined as “the information about the information,” which
in this case is the information pertaining to the file itself. Some of details of the available metadata were
useful, particularly, the creation date, modification date, author, and last modification author. We will tackle the
metadata later on in this paper.