M government. However, three themes in
APT28’s targeting clearly reflects areas of specific
interest to an Eastern European government, most
likely the Russian government. These include the
Caucasus (especially the Georgian government),
Eastern European governments and militaries, and
specific security organizations.
APT28 uses spearphishing emails to target its
victims, a common tactic in which the threat group
crafts its emails to mention specific topics (lures)
relevant to recipients. This increases the
likelihood that recipients will believe that the
email is legitimate and will be interested in
opening the message, opening any attached files,
or clicking on a link in the body of the email. Since
spearphishing lures are tailored to the recipients
whose accounts APT28 hopes to breach, the
subjects of the lures provide clues as to APT28’s
targets and interests. For example, if the group’s
lures repeatedly refer to the Caucasus, then this
most likely indicates that APT28 is trying to gain
access to the accounts of individuals whose work
pertains to the Caucasus. Similarly, APT28’s practice
of registering domains that mimic those of legitimate
news, politics, or other websites indicates topics that
are relevant to APT28’s targets.
We identified three themes in APT28’s lures and
registered domains, which together are
particularly relevant to the Russian government.
In addition to these themes, we have seen APT28
target a range of political and military
organizations. We assess that the work of these
organizations serves nation state governments.
APT 28: Three Themes
The Caucasus,
particularly the
country of Georgia
Eastern European
governments and
militaries
The North Atlantic
Treaty Organization
(NATO) and other
European security
organizations
7 Bloomberg. “Neiman Marcus Hackers Set Off 60,000 Alerts While Bagging Credit Card Data.” February 2014.
8 Ibid.
9 Ibid.
6 fireeye.com
APT 28: A Window into Russia’s Cyber Espionage Operations?
APT28 INTEREST IN
THE CAUCASUS,
PARTICULARLY GEORGIA
Chechnya and other Russian republics and