TERRACOTTA VPN COMPONENTS
There are several high-level components to the Terracotta VPN system.


WEBSITES: The most visible Terracotta VPN components are the websites that market the service and the specific brands
associated with Terracotta VPN.  VPN users can download the software clients, obtain trial credentials, change credentials
for their paid accounts, and add credit to paid accounts from these websites.


CLIENT SOFTWARE: The client software is another common Terracotta VPN element. The client interfaces are skinned
with images and logos consistent with their corresponding websites. The client software is principally developed by a
legitimate software vendor, according to the application’s file properties and indicative by the domains contacted by the
client when the user logs-in.


CLIENT SOFTWARE AUTHENTICATION: Closely-tied to the client software is the central client authentication system, by
which clients use credentials to authenticate into the client software. Upon successful login, the client software will check
for updates and download the latest set of global VPN nodes.


COMMON VPN NODES: The dynamic set of 1500+ VPN nodes is another component. These nodes are shared among most
of the Terracotta VPN brands and, most notably, link the different elements of the Terracotta VPN ecosystem. The roster of
nodes is updated by the various software clients during each login sequence. Figure 1 illustrates the relationships between
the Terracotta VPN components and the client VPN-tunneling sequence.


USER AUTHENTICATION; The final component is the central Radius-compatible, Internet Authentication Service (IAS)
directory that authenticates the user account credentials with the VPN node.


The steps are:


The Terracotta user establishes an account; obtains credentials and client software from one of the Terracotta brand
websites.


The user signs into the client UI, which authenticates the client credentials against the central client authentication system.


The software client will then populate with an updated roster of VPN nodes.


Once the user selects a VPN node, the node will authenticate the user credentials with the distributed IAS directory.


Following successful authentication, the Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) or Layer-Two Tunneling Protocol (L2TP)
session is established.


At this point the user has successfully tunneled to the Internet through the Terracotta VPN end point.
6
Figure 1. How Terracotta VPN Works