THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ESPIONAGE AND SABOTAGE
Media accounts of cyber operations often paint incidents with a broad brush, labeling all
intrusions as attacks regardless of whether the outcome was destructive. [29] Offensive cyber
operations, however, can be more accurately labeled according to their intent and impact,
distinguishing espionage and sabotage. Iranian actors have both engaged in intrusions
to extract information from foreign networks (espionage, information gathering) and
performed destructive actions to punish or coerce adversaries (sabotage), with a gray area
in the middle related to signaling and other motivations. Understanding this difference is
important in assessing Tehran’s strategy and the legality of its operations.
International law differentiates activities that are legal, though not desirable, from those
that are illegal and could prompt dangerous escalation. [30] Just as international law differ
14     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
entiates traditional espionage from coercion or violence, these same principles also apply
to cyber espionage. Legal scholars have asserted that “mere intrusion into another State’s
systems does not violate the non-intervention principle.” [31]
Indeed, given the growing number of nations with offensive cyber capabilities, espionage
and information gathering through cyber operations has increasingly become accepted
as an international norm. [32] While the United States naturally denounces Tehran’s targeting of State Department employees, for example, such incidents mirror similar espionage
operations against Iranian diplomats by U.S. and other Western intelligence agencies. [33]
International law experts have provided frameworks for determining what constitutes an
“armed attack” in cyberspace, based on severity, invasiveness, directness, and other factors. Such frameworks also reinforce the importance of terminology, differentiating, for
example, espionage against the Navy Marine Corps Intranet from a destructive incident
such as Iran’s attack on Saudi Arabia’s and the world’s largest oil company, Saudi Aramco. [34] Relatedly, scholars have noted that Iran’s use of proxies in offensive cyber operations
does not absolve the government of legal obligations or repercussions for their outcome,
based in part on international case law from the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis. [35]
Consistent evaluation of the legality of Iranian cyber operations provides clearer public
benchmarks for assessing when Iran violates internationally respected principles and engages in illegitimate behavior. As Tehran continues to conduct offensive cyber operations,
it is important for policymakers to assess the intent, scope, and legality of Iran’s actions
before considering counter responses.
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    15
CHAPTER TWO