Decoys
Content found in a PowerRatankba JS downloader decoy (transaction.pdf downloaded by transaction.js) was previously
utilized in Lazarus campaigns using techniques that have more traditionally, to our knowledge, been used for espionage
rather than for financial gain. The campaign occurred on August 4th, 2017, where Lazarus Group impersonated a National
police officer of South Korea along with a malicious Microsoft Office Excel document. The malicious Excel attachment
utilized a macro-based VBScript XOR dropper technique that has been very well documented in public already.
The document used in this attack was named 비트코인 거래내역.xls
(b46530fa2bd5f9958f664e754ae392dc400bd3fcb1c5adc7130b7374e0409924), which roughly translates to “Bitcoin
transaction history.” Using the macro-based VBScript XOR dropper technique a CoreDn downloader implant is dropped to
disk with a C&C of www.unsunozo[.]org. The interesting overlap with the PowerRatankba campaigns can be found in the
lure used by the Excel spreadsheet (Fig. 60). The highlighted transactions, after the “Final bitcoin Address” section match
with the beginning of the transactions used in the PowerRatankba decoy transaction.pdf.
Figure 60: Excel CoreDn ~tmp001.xls decoy on the left, PowerRatankba transaction.pdf decoy on the right
On a final note for this aspect of the actor attribution, campaigns utilizing the VBScript XOR macro technique have
historically been used for attacks more closely associated with espionage than for direct financial gain, as was the case
when several campaigns targeted the personal accounts of employees at US defense contractors. This behavior may offer
a clue as to the desperation North Korea has for procuring currency through illicit means, possibly due to the economic
sanctions imposed on the regime. This may indicate that there has been a significant shift in directives for the Lazarus
team(s) that historically conducted espionage campaigns. Furthermore, several of the campaigns utilizing the old VBScript
XOR macro technique have direct or within-one-week overlap with PowerRatankba campaigns alluding to the possibility
that there is in fact more than one team working under the North Korean umbrella as other companies have suggested
(e.g., Kaspersky’s excellent write-up on Bluenoroff).