Suspected Chinese Actor targeting Uzbekistan and South Korea
Talos discovered four samples deployed in this campaign that are likely targeting users
in Uzbekistan and South Korea based on the language of the decoy documents, the lure
content, and distribution indicators Talos found in the wild.
One of the samples is sent to users in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan. The
sample is an archive embedded with a Windows ShortCut LNK file which, upon opening,
drops the decoy document “Investment project details.docx'' with Uzbek content about a
presidential decree in Uzbekistan focused on enhancing state administration in technical
regulation. The lure content of the decoy document was published in multiple Uzbekistan
sources in 2021. The initial vector of the campaign is likely a phishing email with an
attached malicious RAR archive file sent to an employee of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
Decoy document in Uzbek language.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/new-sugargh0st-rat/ 2/19
1/16/24, 12:16 PM New SugarGh0st RAT targets Uzbekistan government and South Korea
Besides Uzbekistan, we also observed indications of targets in South Korea. We found
three other decoy documents written in Korean dropped by the malicious JavaScript file
embedded in the Windows Shortcut, seemingly distributed in South Korea. The decoy
document named “Account.pdf” was forged as a Microsoft account security notification
for confirming an account registration with a generated password. Another decoy named
“MakerDAO MKR approaches highest since August.docx'' uses the copied content from
코인데스크코리아 (CoinDesk Korea, a Korean news outlet that covers the blockchain).
The third decoy document, named “Equipment_Repair_Guide.docx,” has the lure
information with instructions for computer maintenance in an organization. To reinforce
our assessment of South Korean targets, we also observed C2 domain requests from
IPs originating from South Korea.
The decoy documents found in the samples collected by Talos.
During our analysis, we observed a couple of artifacts that suggested the actor might be
Chinese-speaking. Two of the decoy files we found have the “last modified by” names
shown as “ 浅唱丶低吟 ” (Sing lightly, croon) and “ 琴玖辞 ” (seems to be the name of a
Chinese novel author), which are both Simplified Chinese.
The author and last editor’s information on decoy documents.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/new-sugargh0st-rat/ 3/19
1/16/24, 12:16 PM New SugarGh0st RAT targets Uzbekistan government and South Korea
Besides the decoy document metadata, the actor prefers using SugarGh0st, a Gh0st
RAT variant. The Gh0st RAT malware is a mainstay in the Chinese threat actors’ arsenal
and has been active since at least 2008. Chinese actors also have a history of targeting
Uzbekistan. The targeting of the Uzbekistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs also aligns with
the scope of Chinese intelligence activity abroad.