► CONCLUSIONS
This paper describes “Icefog”, a small APT group which focuses on targets in South Korea and
Japan. The operation appears to have started in 2011 and increased in size and scope during each
year. Based on the victim profiles, the attackers appear to have an interest in the following sectors:


Military


Mass media and TV


Shipbuilding and maritime operations


Computers and software development


Research companies


Telecom operators


Satellite operators


Despite their relative lack of complexity, the attackers have successfully compromised targets
belonging to these categories, with the largest number of victims being in South Korea.
The Icefog attackers have both Windows and Mac OS X backdoors at their disposal. The Mac OS
X backdoor currently remains largely undetected by security solutions and has managed to infect
several hundred victims worldwide.
The “hit and run” nature of this operation is one of the things that make it unusual. While in other
cases, victims remain infected for months or even years, and data is continuously exfiltrated, the
Icefog attackers appear to know very well what they need from the victims. Once the information is
obtained, the victim is abandoned.
During the past years, we observed a large increase in the number of APTs which are hitting pretty
much all types of victims and sectors. In turn, this is coupled with an increased focus on sensitive
information and corporate cyber-espionage.
In the future, we predict the number of small, focused APT-to-hire groups to grow, specializing in
49
CONCLUSIONS
hit-and-run operations, a kind of “cyber mercenaries” of the modern world.
Recommendations on how to stay safe from such attacks (for both Windows and Mac OS X users):


Update Java to the most recent version or, if you don’t use Java, uninstall it.


Update Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office to the latest versions.


Update all other third party software, such as Adobe Reader.


Be wary of clicking on links and opening attachments from unknown persons.


> Windows users can install Microsoft EMET 4.0, a toolkit designed to help prevent hackers
from gaining access to your system.
So far, we haven’t observed the use of zero-day vulnerabilities by the Icefog group; to defend
against those, although patches don’t help, technologies such as AEP (Automatic Exploit
Prevention) and DefaultDeny can be quite effective.
50
Appendix A