3. Attribution
3.1. Non-specific Data
Compared to our other APT research the available data is more non-specific than usual. There
simply is no one piece or set of data that would lead to the conclusion that the threat actor is
Bear, Kitten, Panda, Salmon, or otherwise. Significant data points below.
File timestamp analysis and unique strings
It is rare to see file timestamps used as a precise, primary source of information when it comes
to threat actor attribution. In previous reports, these timestamps have been used as supporting,
or secondary pieces of data. They may help to suggest or support a time range for attacker
activity, but they are very easily modified. So it is not very helpful to focus on this data set.
The strings present in the backdoors, web components, and exploits are in English. Almost 200
malicious binaries and the related operational content all present a complete lack of Cyrillic
content, the opposite of our documented findings from researching Red October, Miniduke,
Cosmicduke, Snake, and TeamSpy.
The OPC module strings include typos and bad grammar. Some are so bad they are almost silly
and there doesn’t seem to be a consistent pattern here:
```
Programm was started at %02i:%02i:%02i
Start finging of LAN hosts...
Finding was fault. Unexpective error
Was found %i hosts in LAN:
Hosts was't found.
```
There are also three interesting strings inside the Karagany backdoor:
identifiant (which is French for identifier ), fichier (French for file ) and
liteliteliteskot ( lite scot is Swedish for little sheet )
Timestamp details
Timestamp analysis is based on a total of 154 collected binaries:


124 Havex loader samples (versions 01 - 044) + 7 downloaded modules


7 Sysmain backdoor samples


4 Ddex loader samples


1 ClientX backdoor sample


4 Karagany Trojan samples + 2 downloaded modules


3 samples of Trojanized installers


Highlights:


The earliest samples related to this campaign are the Ddex loader binaries with
compilation timestamps between October and November 2010 .


The first Havex loader samples, version 01 and version 02, have compilation timestamps
from 28th September 2011 .


The latest known samples are Havex loader version 044, compiled on 7th May 2014,
and all OPC modules compiled in April and May 2014 .


Most samples were compiled on weekdays, although there are a couple of samples with
the compilation timestamp from a Saturday.


Most samples were compiled between 6:00 and 16:00 UTC with a peak between 6:00
and 8:00 UTC .


Earliest compilation time: 02:15:23 UTC (Wed, 28 Sep 2011)


Latest time: 23:39:34 UTC (Thu, 02 Jun 2011)




Activity / Year (all samples):
Figure 18. Activity per year on different components
Activity / Weekdays based on compilation time:
Figure 19. Activity per weekday distribution
Activity / Hours (UTC) based on compilation time:
Figure 20. Activity per hour distribution
3.2. Exploit server activity
All the exploit servers delivered slightly modified ripped content from open source repositories.
All the servers appear to be hacked servers. According to the available data, no zero-day
exploits were used in any of these attacks, either to compromise the servers in the first place, or
delivered as client side attack exploits by the Lights Out Exploit Kit.
While this purely malicious re-use of metasploit PoC highlights the danger that these attack
tools pose, it is also unusual to see an exclusively metasploit attack toolset effectively used in
this way, delivered from what appear to be a chain of higher value compromised sites.
All of these compromised web applications were vulnerable to freely available offensive security
tools. We acknowledge that many of the compromised referrer servers were related to power
producers in some way. However, these targets almost seem an afterthought, as the exploit
servers themselves were compromised web servers from Cuban travel agency sites, a
Californian winery site, a US based women’s fashion site, an Iranian general interest/religious
inspiration site, a number of dating and adult content websites, and a variety of others.
Although, we note that the known Trojanized software packages were ICS/SCADA related as
well, possibly because those victim sets or environments required special attention. So, while
there was a strong set of offensive activities on power producers during the campaigns, it was
by no means the full focus of them.
3.3. Victim characteristics and categories
While it may be “shocking” to observe power producers around the world targeted by any one
threat actor, this actor’s attack activity does not appear to be constrained to power producers.
The related industries of interest show a much broader global scope than previously discussed,
and the geographic regions of interest have gone completely undiscussed. For example, Spain
had the highest number of victims. However, it appears that there was no significant correlation
between the victim location and the C&C geolocation. And, according to our data, the list also
includes victim organizations fitting the following additional categories:


Pharmaceuticals


Health


Cleaning


Education


Automotive


Transportation


Packaging


Network Infrastructure


Information Technology


Structural Engineering

Mechanical Engineering
