From HummingBad to Worse
NEW DETAILS AND AN IN-DEPTH ANALYSIS OF
THE HUMMINGBAD ANDROID MALWARE CAMPAIGN
For five months, Check Point mobile threat
researchers had unprecedented, behind-the
scenes access to a group of cybercriminals in
China. This group created a malware that
takes over Android devices and generates
$300,000 per month in fraudulent ad revenue.
The group effectively controls an arsenal of
over 85 million mobile devices around the
world. With the potential to sell access to
these devices to the highest bidder, Check
Point researchers say similar malware
Figure 1: Data from Check Point gateways detailing the number of
campaigns may become a trend.
HummingBad instances researchers have seen in the wild.
In February 2016, Check Point researchers first discovered HummingBad, a malware that establishes a
persistent rootkit on Android devices, generates fraudulent ad revenue, and installs additional fraudulent
apps. Since then, researchers saw an increasing number of instances in the wild and have traced the
attack campaign’s source.
This investigation uncovered critical insights on how attackers conduct mobile malware campaigns:

The HummingBad campaign runs alongside a legitimate advertising analytics business, sharing

their technology and resources, enabling it to control tens of millions of Android devices
The campaign generates $300,000 a month; proving attacks can achieve financial self-sufficiency
Financial gain is just the tip of the iceberg:


The group tries to root thousands of devices every day and is successful in hundreds of attempts


With these devices, a group can create a botnet, carry out targeted attacks on businesses or


government agencies, and even sell the access to other cybercriminals on the black market

Any data on these devices is at risk, including enterprise data on those devices that serve dual

personal and work purposes for end users
Accessing these devices and their sensitive data creates a new and steady steady stream of revenue for
cybercriminals. Emboldened by financial and technological independence, their skillsets will advance –
putting end users, enterprises, and government agencies at risk.
©2016 Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved   |   P.  1
Figure 1: Data from Check Point gateways detailing the number of
HummingBad instances researchers have seen in the wild.