Update 2024-01-09
Famous hardware hacker Hector Martin (marcan) was able to figure out that what we
thought was a custom hash was actually something a little different. It is an error
correction code (ECC), or more precisely, a Hamming code with a custom lookup table
(what we call “sbox table” in the text above).
This discovery helps us understand the original purpose of this unknown hardware
feature. We originally thought it was a debugging feature that provided direct memory
access to the memory and was protected with a “dummy” hash for extra security. But the
fact that it involves an ECC, coupled with the unstable behavior observed when trying to
use it to patch the kernel code, leads to the conclusion that this hardware feature
provides direct memory access to the cache.
This discovery also raises the possibility that this unused hardware feature could have
been found through experimentation, but to do so would require attackers to solve a large
number of unknown variables. Attackers could find values in a custom lookup table using
brute force, but they would also need to know that such a powerful cache debugging
feature exists, that it involves Hamming code and, most importantly, they would need to
know the location and purpose of all the MMIO registers involved, and how and in what
order to interact with them. Were the attackers able to resolve all these unknown
variables by themselves or was this information revealed somewhere by mistake? It still
remains a mystery.
Apple
Malware Technologies
Reverse engineering
Targeted attacks
Triangulation
Vulnerabilities and exploits
https://securelist.com/operation-triangulation-the-last-hardware-mystery/111669/ 19/20
1/12/24, 6:10 PM Operation Triangulation: The last (hardware) mystery | Securelist
Zero-day vulnerabilities
Operation Triangulation: The last (hardware) mystery
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
https://securelist.com/operation-triangulation-the-last-hardware-mystery/111669/ 20/20