The hacker group’s "Armageddon"/"Armageddon" profile
The Security Service of Ukraine classifies the hacker group
"Armageddon" as APT (Advanced Persistent Threat), and
unambiguously identifies it as a specially created structural unit
of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation, whose
tasks are intelligence and subversive activities against Ukraine in
cyberspace.
Other well-known names are Gamaredon (Eset,
PaloAlto)/Primitive Bear (CrowdStrike)/Winterflouder
(iDefence)/BlueAlpha (RecordedFuture)/BlueOtso
(PWC)/IronTiden (SecureWorks)/SectorC08 (Red Alert), Callisto
(NATO Association of Canada). The group is an integral part of
the so-called "Office of the FSB of Russia in the Republic of
Crimea and the city of Sevastopol", and consists of regular
officers of the secret service and some former law enforcement
officers of Ukraine.
The Security Service of Ukraine believes that Armageddon
was formed and has been operating since 2014 (some sources
on the Internet indicate June 2013). The main purpose of its
activity is to conduct targeted cyberintelligence operations
against state bodies of Ukraine, primarily security, defense and
law enforcement agencies, in order to obtain intelligence
information.
The activity and development of the hacker group
"Armageddon" during 2014-2021 has led to the existence of a
new real cyber threat. In the period 2017-2021 this group
implemented the most numerous cyberintelligence actions on
various vectors of public administration.
Armageddon does not use complex and sophisticated
techniques, tactics and procedures, does not try to make an effort
to stay secret for a long time. Staying off the radar is not a group
priority.
However, the group's activities are characterized by
intrusiveness and audacity. It is evidenced by the name of the
group "Armageddon", which is taken from the information
contained in the metadata of the first created documents-baits;
cyber attacks algorithm repeatability and regular mass sending of
malicious messages to the same circle of addressees; derogatory
password phrases encoded in malicious software, etc.
The cyber attack mechanism is based on the principle of
simultaneous mass destruction of a large number of users inside
one organization and the deployment of malicious software.
When the victim's computer system loses control, the attackers
try to regain access to the source of the information and try again
to compromise them according to a similar scenario.
Malicious software modules have been created with the
help of programming languages VBScript, VBA Script, C#, C++, as
well as using CMD, PowerShell and .NET command shells.
In fact, the group focuses on computer systems running the
Windows, although we know about the test use of the EvilGnome
malware (to defeat Linux systems), as well as attempts to get
access to Android devices.
Analysis of the group's tactics since its first appearance on
the "landscape" of cyberspace allows us to divide its activities
into 2 periods: from 2014 to 2017 and from 2017 to the present
day. This divide is due to the evolution of tools.
Though, there is little information about Armageddon's early
days, based on the available data, members of the group relied on
legitimate, publicly available software products in the early years
of their existence, which was eventually changed to customized
malware Pterodo/Pteranodon.
At the first stage, the minimum required set of software
consisted of dropper files sent with phishing emails, as well as
remote access tools, which were installed after users opened
malicious applications and provided remote access to
the information system. Such tools include RMS (Remote
Manipulator System) and UltraVNC.
The second stage, starting in 2016, is characterized by the
transition to customized malware called Pterodo/Pteranodon,
which widely expanded the functionality of the group.