Initialization
As usual in this malware family’s code, a huge number of short standalone functions return all the
readable strings. This is done to complicate analysis by not allowing the strings to be visible at a
glance for researchers. The module’s preparation stage dynamically resolves all required
Windows API function addresses into corresponding custom structures. Afterwards the malware
uses indirect function calls only.
The module obtains the processor architecture (32- or 64-bit) and Windows OS version. It
includes a number of anti-analysis checks for virtual machine-related devices (VEN_VMWARE,
VBOX_HARDDISK, Virtual_DVD_ROM, etc.) to avoid controlled execution. It also notes which
security products are running on the host (Symantec, Kaspersky, Dr.Web, Avast).
Before every communication with the C2, the malware checks if software such as debuggers
(WinDbg, OllyDbg, Visual Studio) and host (Process Explorer or Monitor, etc.) or network
monitoring (Wireshark, TCPView, etc.) programs are running. It also checks for internet
connectivity and does not attempt to communicate if the checks fail.
The DLL also checks for potentially available launch processes that it can inject itself into. In the
case of PaymentRequired, this could be system, security product or browser processes. Then the
malware forms the corresponding code to drop files, delete files, etc.
https://securelist.com/compfun-http-status-based-trojan/96874/ 4/8
5/15/2020 COMpfun authors spoof visa application with HTTP status-based Trojan | Securelist
The last step in the initialization procedure is to decrypt and decompress the configuration file.
Decryption is done via a one-byte XOR using the 0xAA key, followed by decompression using the
LZNT1 algorithm. From the configuration, the malware parses the RSA public key, ETag and IP
addresses to communicate with its control servers.
Decrypted configuration data contains an RSA public key to encrypt exfiltrated data, C2
IPs and unique ETag to communicate with them