Notable Activity
efforts against them pointless. On top of this, a fallback mechanism
generates a weekly-changing, deterministic set of 1,000 domain names
that the botmaster can register in order to serve fresh peer lists. Bots that
fail to establish contact with the P2P network would consult the Domain
Generation Algorithm (DGA) in order to retrieve a new set of peers. Finally,
all communication in the botnet is encrypted.
In June 2014, the botnet was disrupted in a coordinated effort called
Operation Tovar that was the culmination of months of technical
investigation and legal wrangling. The botnet was disrupted by the taking
over of its infrastructure and at the same time preventing access by the
botmasters. While this effort had to take into account and block all different
communication channels, it was primarily focused on the P2P network,
as it was the most complex component. By propagating specially crafted
messages in the botnet, its infrastructure was degenerated and bots were
redirected to sinkholes.
The CrowdStrike Intelligence team provided technical expertise to permit
the enforcement of a Temporary Restraining Order (TRO), which successfully
disrupted not only the infamous Gameover Zeus botnet, but also
CryptoLocker. In addition to the technical disruption, the U.S. Department of
Justice filed an indictment against an individual called Evgeniy Mikhailovich
Bogachev, who is believed to be behind the GOZ botnet, as well as several
other unnamed co-conspirators.
Point-of-Sale Malware and Related Intrusions
Credit card fraud has traditionally been popular in the cybercrime scene.
In cases where credit card data is stolen through website breaches, the
exposed data usually consists of the card numbers, expiration dates,
cardholder names, and card security codes. However, with this data
alone, it is not always possible to accurately recreate what can be found
on a card’s magnetic strip. In the criminal marketplace, card track data is
therefore generally more highly valued than the information mentioned
above because it can be used in multiple ways, including manufacturing
counterfeit credit cards.
Throughout 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence investigated several large
15