Li Keqiang: A Harbinger of Targeted Exploitation?
Judging by the last modified timestamp on the HTTP response of gop-script.js, which is Tue, 16 Dec 2014
08:07:06 GMT, this malicious CDN compromise was very recent in nature. In fact, it occurred on the very
same day that China’s Prime Minister Li Keqiang would meet with Abdullah Abdullah, the Chief Executive
Officer of Afghanistan in Astana Kazakhstan, they would discuss infrastructure development and bilateral
cooperation issues.
Looking at the EXIF metadata of the image of Keqiang meeting with Abdullah that is hosted on the
Chinese embassy website we note a Tue, 16 December 2014 07:43:31 modify time as well as the
www.news[.]cn watermark in the bottom righthand corner. This indicates that the image of Keqiang and
Abdullah was likely taken and edited sometime prior to 07:43:31. While it is ambiguous as to which
timezone the edits actually took place in (Kazakhstan or China) we assume the date
timestamp references GMT because the press release states “ In the afternoon of December 15 local time… ”
If we assume the photograph and afternoon meeting took place sometime prior to 13:43 Alma-Ata
standard time (+0600) this would closely correspond with a 07:43 GMT time stamp. The modification of
the gop-script.js by the attackers at 08:07:06 GMT likely tracks extremely close to a window of a few hours
in which Keqiang met with Abdullah.
It is worth mentioning that a similar scenario occurred on June 20th when security researcher
PhysicalDrive0 observed a malicious Java file hosted on the Embassy of Greece in Beijing. At the time, a
Chinese delegation led by Keqiang was visiting Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras in Athens. Security
researcher R136a1 aka “thegoldenmessenger” released a followup blog with detailed analysis of the Greek
embassy compromise.
While these two separate events are not directly related, additional research into the status of ministerial
and official government websites on or around the dates of notable Chinese delegations and or bilateral
meetings may yield additional patterns of interest.