Categorising Attacks
Many commentators have divided the targets of attacks into four categories: political,
economic, technical and military. This works as a general model, but focuses on the target
of the attack as a whole rather than considering the type of information the attacker seeks
to steal. If a criminal gang unleashes a phishing attack aimed at harvesting banking
credentials and it is the employees of a butchers shop and a bakery that fall victim to it, that
does not mean the attack was targeting bread and meat.
Bearing this in mind, we divide target areas into the following categories: 
Political. The information targeted will inform the state on the political positions of
other governments on a range of issues, including economics, trade and human
rights. Typical targets are government departments, embassies, trade bodies, NGOs,
and international political groups such as the UN, G20, World Bank and IMF. 
Commercial. The information targeted will be of value to the private sector within
that country (even if the lines between private and public sectors are blurred). It may
include IPR, product designs, negotiating positions for sales discussions, mergers and
acquisitions information and strategic plans (particularly in relation to the attacking
country). 
Intelligence. The information targeted here will be used to safeguard internal security
by the attacker country (this may entail intimidation or close monitoring of minority or
opposition groups or individuals) and to enable analysis of the military technology,
capabilities and intentions of other countries.
There are a number of major problems that need to be overcome when seeking a
complete understanding of the scale and purpose of attacks. Many will never be detected,
those that are may not always be reported; and the vast majority are not investigated by
professionals with a good understanding of these types of attack. Dealing with the technical
aspects of the compromise alone is not enough: the victim needs to know why they were
being attacked, by whom, what data was stolen and where it may go.
While government agencies, such as the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure [4]
(CPNI) in the UK and the FBI5 in the US, are working successfully with larger organisations to
identify potential threats, reduce the risk of successful attacks and in some cases to identify
and investigate specific compromises, this assistance is not available to every company. It is
not generally available to those that need it the most – companies that innovate and excel
in niche areas and supply technology or products that other companies make use of in
larger projects. These companies live and die by the success of their research and
development, but often lack the budgetary resources or expertise required to adequately
protect their networks from this type of threat.
Even when compromises are investigated by companies that understand the attackers and
their motives, it is often not felt to be in the interests of either party to publish the findings of
those investigations, or to share the results with the affected company’s competitors, who
4 http://www.cpni.gov.uk
5 http://www.fbi.gov/
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 5 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data
may be suffering from similar attacks. There is also a widespread lack of understanding of
targeted attacks among IT staff, a lack of dedicated IT security personnel and, sometimes as
a consequence of IT functions being outsourced, an over-reliance on traditional security
products such as anti-virus and firewalls – both of which are ineffective against even lower
end targeted attacks. The pressure exerted on IT staff from the business is primarily
concerned with service uptime and availability rather than security; and budgets for even
routine security operations such as penetration testing are under constant pressure. It is a
sad fact that, for many businesses, money for IT security only becomes available once a
serious problem has been identified, by which time it is often too late.
One more common problem in private sector companies is that some managers take the
attitude that they would prefer not to know about security problems. Information
Technology departments may worry that commissioning a detection exercise to find
compromised hosts in their environment, could reveal a series of attacks and the theft of
data, which might not be good for their career prospects. Higher up the management
chain, board members may even choose not to spend money on security on the grounds
that this will affect profitability and perhaps the size of their salaries or bonuses. They may
instead prefer to postpone any major spending on security until they absolutely have to.
Why Cyber?
Clearly, the Chinese government is keen to understand the political decisions taken by other
countries and the activities of opposition groups within China, so it is hardly surprising that it
orchestrates the compromise of computers via emailed Trojan attachments or links to
compromised websites on a large scale. This is nothing new; just traditional espionage with a
new methodology.
Until recently China, like most other developed countries, would have hand-picked
intelligence officers from universities and the military, trained them in the arts of developing
relationships, recruiting agents and how to covertly gather information to pass back to
Beijing. They would have been deployed to embassies overseas or under a business cover.
The arrival of the Internet did not sound the death knell for human spying, it simply offered
an attractive alternative. Moving espionage operations into the virtual world brings some
advantages. Firstly, it does not require anyone to be sent overseas. This is an important
change for the governments of communist countries, naturally suspicious of the long term
intentions of even their most trusted officials. It means there is less need to invest in lengthy
training processes. Instead, hacking operations can be broken down into simple tasks and
partly automated to minimise the need for operators with advanced technical skills.
Conducting these operations is cheap and carries a lesser risk than human espionage: even
if the target is fairly certain as to the origin of an attack, the sponsoring government can
claim to be a victim of mistaken identity or of a western conspiracy.
But the key benefit of this type of espionage is that any piece of information stored
anywhere in the world on a computer or a network connected to the Internet is only a few
clicks away from being stolen. There are even attacks that are designed to jump to
computers not connected to the Internet. If the prize is great enough and the attacker is
determined enough, there is always a way.
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 6 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data
How Cyber?
This paper is not concerned with ‘how’ the attacks happen, which is a subject for a white
paper in its own right. Typically however, the attackers target the desktops and laptops of
the victim’s organisation and send emails with an attachment containing an exploit, (often
an Adobe PDF or Microsoft Office document) that is targeted at one person. Once the
victim opens the attachment the exploit executes, typically downloading and automatically
installing a Trojan, which the attacker can then use to access the victim’s system. The
attackers also utilise website vulnerabilities which exploit vulnerabilities in web browsers such
as Internet Explorer or Firefox to download malicious code onto a machine when a user
clicks on a link in an email. Once the attacker has this foothold on the network, they
typically look to download and use further hacking tools to escalate privileges to gain
administrative access to key internal servers such as Domain Controllers or File Servers. Once
achieved, the attackers typically use another remote desktop or laptop on the network to
collate the data stolen and exfilitrate it to their remote servers.
In the case that a network is fully patched and constitutes a hard target, the attackers can
respond and raise their game substantially. This could include exploiting a zero day
vulnerability [6] or employing other means of installing an implant, such as using physical
access to introduce an attack or even attacking a supply chain.
The Targets
Despite opening up greatly over the last 15 years, China is still very much run by the
Communist Party. The Party has control over and involvement in every area of daily life, but
despite the internal focus, China is careful to keep an eye on the outside world and how the
country’s institutions and companies are perceived by foreign governments. An
understanding of other countries’ political positions on key issues that affect China is key to
forward planning, especially for an economy built on cheap exports.
The governments in which the Chinese state is most interested fall into three groups: its
nearest neighbours: Japan, Taiwan, the disputed (semi-autonomous) Tibet, Mongolia and
the Muslim ‘Stans’ to the west; other powerful states with international influence such as the
US, Russia, the UK, Germany, France and India; and finally states with strong economic links
to China including Brazil, Iran, Australia, parts of Africa and Southeast Asia.
Whilst China will not be interested in the entire spectrum of government affairs in each of
these countries, there will be some interest in some parts of all these governments’ activities.
Gathering information on this scale is a massive task: monitoring relevant issues, identifying
individuals with access to that information and crafting attacks in the appropriate form and
language.
The other constant preoccupation of the Chinese government is the maintenance of
internal and external security. The enemies of the internal state are referred to as the ‘Five
Poisons’: the separatist Uighurs (a mainly Muslim group in Northeast China), Tibetan
separatists, pro-democracy supporters, supporters of an independent Taiwan and followers
of the religious group Falun Gong. Keeping tabs on these groups and on their known
supporters at home and overseas is another huge task. The Ministry of State Security monitors
6 A zero day vulnerability is one which is not publicly known and for which no patch exists.
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 7 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data
the communications between individuals and groups, a task made considerably easier
through the deployment of Trojans to compromise computer equipment. As a minimum,
security services would usually seek to steal email account login and password details in
order to be able to log in remotely and read emails. Google has confirmed this activity was
taking place on the Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents. [7]
China wants a clear picture of other countries’ military activities in order to inform its own
tactical and strategic decisions. Human penetrations of foreign military organisations are
extremely difficult and carry significant risks, so relatively passive email attacks are an
excellent substitute activity, where no single incident can be seen as an act of aggression
meriting a military response. It remains to be seen whether thousands of attacks conducted
over a long period of time will come to be regarded as having been a provocative act
warranting a military response.
While China has been publicly – albeit mostly not directly – accused of carrying out attacks
against governments, military organisations and military contractors numerous times, there
are also plenty of examples of private sector organisations being targeted. Several stand
out from the last few years: the ‘Aurora [8] ’ attacks that hit Google, Adobe, Juniper, Northrup
Grumman and others; the McAfee-dubbed ‘Night Dragon [9] ’ attacks that struck companies
around the world in the energy sector; and the ‘Shady RAT [10] ’ attacks that affected the steel
industry, heavy engineering, construction and communications companies and others.
Interestingly, despite reporting on the intrusions, McAfee does not highlight the fact that antivirus software did little to stop the attacks in the first place. In all likelihood all these various
‘operations’ formed part of the same attack, with different groups or military units carrying
out operations sponsored by the Chinese state. One attack that was clearly carefully
planned, and equally linked to the others, was that conducted against RSA [11], whereby
attackers stole information which allowed them to replicate the SecurID tokens used by
companies to authenticate individuals logging onto their networks from remote locations.
Armed with those stolen credentials, an attacker would be able to log in to company
networks as if a real user. The full extent of this breach has not been publicly disclosed,
though we do know that Lockheed Martin was attacked and we can speculate that other
defence contractors were also targeted. As full details of what was stolen have never been
put into the public domain, we can only guess at the targeted information. Google claimed
Intellectual Property had been stolen, though no further details were given. But these
companies were all targeted for a reason. Data was identified that would somehow be of
use to China. We will look at who laid out the requirements for this data next.
7 http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2010/01/new-approach-to-china.html
8 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Aurora
9 http://www.mcafee.com/ca/resources/white-papers/wp-global-energy-cyberattacks-
night [dragon.pdf](http://www.mcafee.com/ca/resources/white-papers/wp-global-energy-cyberattacks-night-dragon.pdf)

10 http://www.mcafee.com/us/resources/white-papers/wp-operation-shady-rat.pdf
11 http://www.rsa.com/node.aspx?id=3872
Context Information Security 30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP +44 (0) 207 537 7515 www.contextis.com 8 / 33
Whitepaper / Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data