What to Consider When Protecting Your OT Environment


Segment your OT and IT environments.
Like the Ukraine incident, many OT attacks
originate in the enterprise environment. It is
important that you understand your network
boundaries and connection points. We
recommend implementing network segmen­
tation between your environment using
VLANs and firewalls. Also, when necessary
for ultimate protection, consider data diodes
or other unidirectional technologies for
one-way data transfer from sensitive
environments to authorized systems.


Focus on the Cyber security basics. Often,
we are making it easy on cybercriminals by
forgetting about the basics. Treat your OT
environment like you treat the enterprise.
Remember to focus on basic cyber hygiene
such as (a) strong passwords (or even a
password if not already protected);
(b) multifactor authentication for remote
access, third parties, and maintenance
providers; (c) access control to protect key
processes and data; and (d) the principle of
least privilege for user and admin accounts.


Maintain your OT security posture. We often
find HMI and other connected devices in the
OT environment to be outdated from a


patching perspective—remember, keep your
patches up to date if possible. We recognize
there are cases where vendors will not support
their product when new patches are applied.
In these cases, get creative because you’re still
at risk. Consider alternative controls, such as
whitelisting or network-based security
appliances that block access based on known
vulnerabilities.
boozallen.com/ics     23

Focus on proactive monitoring and
detection, not just compliance. A wise
person once said, “Compliance solves
yesterday’s problem today.” In today’s
cybersecurity landscape, new vulnerabilities
and threats emerge daily. We recommend
instrumenting your environment with both
traditional network and end-point security
solutions, along with emerging real-time OT
data collection sensors. We also recommend

implementing an OT monitoring environ­
ment, such as Splunk, that captures and
correlates events. For security operators, we
recommend watching critical processes and
data for firmware and configuration changes
outside the proper change control process.


Train your operators. Remember, people are
usually the weakest link in a cybersecurity
attack. Educate your team about the cyber
and technology risks facing OT and ICS—and
build awareness of the impacts these threats
can have on your OT environment. Cyber
criminals are actively looking to exploit ICS
operations; educate staff to watch out for
phishing emails and immediately report them
to your cyber response team.


Develop an OT incident response (IR) plan.
Everyone is vulnerable to a cyberattack; it’s
important to be prepared. We recommend
creating an OT IR plan that addresses safety
and plant operations stability as its primary
goal. The IR plan should include key stake­
holders, such Health and Safety, Legal,
Compliance, and Environmental. Once
developed, it’s important that you socialize
and prepare to execute your plan. We
recommend using scenario-driven exercises
for operators to understand threats and how
to react to a cyber incident. Practice and drill
using the IR plan—and do it regularly!


“Red Team” your environment.


Cybercriminals think differently from
traditional network defenders. They are crafty
and financially motivated. It’s important to
view your environment from the eyes of your
adversary. We recommend engaging a
professional team to assess your environ­
ment from an “attacker’s view.” While
conventional red team practices may not
work in an OT environment, a skilled team
that understands the delicacies of operating
in this space can use offline environments
and built-in redundancy to conduct these
activities without affecting your operations.
Once completed, you can develop a mitiga­
tion plan based on findings and periodically
re-engage the red team!
24 Booz Allen Hamilton
The attack against Ukraine’s electricity distributors
was unparalleled in its impact and demonstrated
disciplined, professional execution. It is highly
likely that this attack was politically motivated and
conducted by a state-backed group. [h] As such,
these threat actors were among the most wellresourced and well-organized adversaries an
organization can face. ICS operators are capable
of meeting these adversaries head-on, and the
tools needed to mitigate and minimize the impact
of an attack such as this are readily available.
WHAT COULD HAVE PREVENTED THE
ATTACK FOR UKRAINE?
At the time of the attack, though the Ukrainian
electrical distributors had exploitable holes in their
security posture, they were not without defense.
The Ukrainian operators had implemented
firewalls between their internal networks and had
segmented their ICS environment from their
corporate network. [65] This segmentation should
have forced attackers to search for vulnerabilities
on the deployed systems, had they not already
stolen valid credentials. The Ukrainian firms were
also fairly well positioned to respond to the
attacks; their extensive experience in manual
operation of their infrastructure enabled them to
get impacted systems up and running within
hours of the attack, despite lacking a prepared
system failure contingency plan. [66] Likewise, the
firms were well prepared to investigate the
incident, as they had extensive logging capability
implemented across their systems and firewalls. [67]
Despite these precautions, the attackers were
ultimately successful. The biggest point of failure
in the operator’s security posture, which allowed
attackers to interfere with the physical systems,
was the enablement of remote access for their