Threat actors found using POWERSTATS V3 – a multi- stage backdoor
In one of the MuddyWater campaigns we spotted, we detected spear-phishing emails that the group sent
to a university in Jordan and the Turkish government. In both cases, the threat actor group did not spoof
the said legitimate entities’ sender address to deceive email recipients, but instead used compromised
legitimate accounts to trick users into installing malware.
Figure 1. Screenshot of a spear-phishing email spoofing a government office, dated April 8, 2019.
Figure 2. Email headers showing the origin of the spear-phishing email
The legitimate owners of the compromised email accounts were from the same countries the target
entities are based. As of this writing, it’s unclear how they were compromised, but it’s possible that the
group had used the Gophish toolkit since they have already utilized it in an old campaign.
2
The threat actor group deployed a new multi-stage PowerShell-based backdoor called POWERSTATS v3 .
The spear-phishing email that contains a document embedded with a malicious macro will drop a VBE file
encoded with Microsoft Script Encoder. The VBE file, which holds a base64-encoded block of data
containing obfuscated PowerShell script, will then execute. This block of data will be decoded and saved
to the %PUBLIC% directory under various names ending with image file extensions such as .jpeg
and .png. The PowerShell code will then use custom string obfuscation and lots of useless blocks of code
to make it difficult to analyze.
Figure 3. Code snippet of obfuscated and useless code
The final backdoor code will be shown after the deobfuscation of all strings and removal of all
unnecessary code. But first, the backdoor will acquire the operating system (OS) information and save
the result to a log file.
Figure 4. Code snippet of OS information collection
This file will be uploaded later to the command and control (C&C) server. Each victim machine will
generate a random GUID number, which will be used for machine identification. Later on, the malware
variant will start the endless loop, querying for the GUID-named file in a certain folder on the C&C server.
If the file is found, it will be downloaded and executed using the Powershell.exe process.
The threat actor group can then proceed to a second stage attack by sending commands to a specific
victim in an asynchronous way. In essence, they can download another backdoor payload from the C&C
server and install it on their targets' systems.
Figure 5. The code in POWERSTATS v3 that downloads the second attack stage
3
We were able to look into an instance where the group proceeded to launch a second stage attack. In this
scenario, another backdoor was downloaded. The backdoor supports the following commands:


Take screenshots


Command execution via the cmd.exe binary


If there’s no keyword, the malware variant assumes that the input is PowerShell code and


executes it via the “Invoke-Expression” cmdlet
Figure 6. The code in POWERSTATS v3 (second stage) that handles the screenshot command
The C&C communication is done using PHP scripts with a hardcoded token and a set of backend
functions, e.g., sc (screenshot), res (result of executed command), reg (register new victim), and uDel
(self-delete after an error).
Figure 7. In an endless loop, the malware variant queries a given path on C&C server, trying to download a
GUID-named file with commands to execute.
4