Bureau 121/ Guardians of Peace/ Dark Seoul
According to defectors, Bureau 121 is one of six divisions of North Korea’s General
Bureau of Reconnaissance that is charged with cyber-intelligence operations. The bureau
was created in 1998 and it consists of ~1800 handpicked hackers who are allegedly the
“most talented and rewarded personnel within the North Korean military” according to a
Reuters interview with a defector known as Jang Se-yul. Students are recruited directly
from the University of Automation and paid relatively significant sums.
North Korea uses cyber-warfare as a cost effective intelligence branch of their
military. Many in North Korea see cyber-warfare as their strongest weapon. Bureau 121
most frequently targets South Korea, Japan, and the United States. Bureau 121 targets
financial institutions and media companies. In one March 2014 attack, 30,000 South Korean
servers associated with banking and media broadcasting outlets were damaged. These
systems were infected with DarkSeoul malware and they displayed messages claiming that
they were hacked by the Whois Team. In November 2014, Sony Pictures’ email server was
hacked by a group claiming to be called the Guardians of Peace, in response to the upcoming
release of the movie “The Interview” because it portrays a story and portrayal that is
unflattering to Kim Jong-un. An estimated 100 terabytes of data were exfiltrated from Sony
before the Wiper Trojan was used to delete the servers. The information contained emails,
unreleased films, employees’ personal information and financial information. Threats were
also made against Sony that contained imagery reminiscent of the September 11, 2001
attacks.
The FBI, Obama Administration, and the NSA have attributed the Sony breach to
North Korea. Members of the press and some security researchers doubt the evidence
28
attributing the Sony attack to North Korea. North Korea may not have been capable of
exfiltrating hundreds of terabytes of data.
The Whois Team and the Guardians of Peace attacks are very similar. Both attacks
were relatively unsophisticated and both attacks offered a moniker of a previously unheard
of group. The procedure of each attack was to install malware through phishing campaigns,
steal data, lock down the infected systems, display a banner message claiming responsibility,
and then using malware to wipe the system.