Control and Operate
Ukraine Attack
As the attackers utilized the operator HMI’s, they operated numerous sites under the control of the dispatcher.
Mitigation approaches for this specific action would focus on application level logic requiring confirmation from
the operator, or implement Area of Responsibility (AoR) limitations that only allow an operator to effect certain
components of a system. For example: If an entity implemented AoR on one operator workstation that provided
east breaker control, and a second operator workstation that provided West breaker control, then an adversary
positioned on one workstation would be limited to the AoR allowed on that specific workstation. Some vendor
systems allow for Username determined AoR, Workstation determined AoR, and/or an intersection model that
combines username and workstation identifier in AoR authorization. There are variations amongst vendor
systems in how authentication is handled within the local workstation, directory, or at the application.
The Next Attack
When an attacker identifies a workstation with application security controls in place that limits their capabilities,
they may modify their attack to control the system directly by issuing or injecting control commands. Mitigation
strategies for this approach would focus on communication path authentication or protocol authentication that
would require commands to be issued from an authorized asset. Monitoring communication sessions between
hosts can lead to early detection and investigation of suspicious communications.
Opportunities to Disrupt
Preparing for adversarial utilization of cyber assets, or communication paths to control and operate elements of
an ICS system, requires system defenders to develop a response approach that eliminates entire sections of
cyber asset elements and networks in an effort to inhibit automated control and activate manual operations
only. As adversaries learn the environment, they may issue test commands and interact with the SCADA
environment without the intention to disrupt it. For mitigation purposes, defenders must talk to operators and
ask about abnormal occurrences, and from a passive defense perspective, ensure that logs are collected not only
from the host but also from the SCADA applications. Additionally, implement a log aggregation architecture that
replicates log files from assets into a log correlation system. Finally, have active defenders routinely review
these logs in conjunction with other monitoring activity throughout the ICS to identify abnormalities.
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
14
Defense Lessons Learned – Passive and Active Defenses