1     Background
Recently, ANTIY Labs detected an APT attack targeting some government agency in
China. The Shellcode for communication is conducted depending on Beacon mode which
is generated on the basis of automatic attack detection platform-Cobalt Strike. This kind of
attack pattern disguising as non-malicious real file in the host of its target, it sending a
network heartbeat package every 60 seconds, and it also send data information via the
Cookie field, all these features of this attack pattern are designed to evade the detection of
security software and the interception of firewall on the targeted host. Considering the
relationship between this attack and Cobalt Strike platform, we name it as APT-TOCS
(TOCS refers to Threat on Cobalt Strike.) for now.
The core step of APT-TOCS is downloading the script functionalities of Shellcode, which
downloads a field of data into memory for operation by calling powershell.exe.The
decrypted data is a field of executable Shellcode that is generated by Cobalt Strike (An
automatic attack testing platform). After loading the script of Shellcode, the Analysis Group
of ANTIY did a series of correlation analysis, then we found a PE program that maybe act
as a guiding executable file in similar attacks. The loaded Shellcode script can be used to
call command line to add a certain field of encrypted date into memory and run it. The
decrypted date turns out to be executable Shellcode which is generated by Cobalt Strike.
The related script can be loaded via the guiding PE program or vulnerability. This kind of
attack pattern has several features which including running in memory, no hard disk writing
2/17
operations, communicating via Beacon, multi-beacon communication is acceptable, and
several Beacons can work simultaneously. Such attack can be launched without the
support of vector file, in fact it depends on network projection and laterally move in the
internal network as required conducting an attack. So, it will bring great difficulties to the
forensic work. It is important to note that, all the Sandboxes we know are disabling to fight
against this kind of attack.
It seems that the attack capability of APT-TOCS is close to that of APT-level. However, it
relied on automatic attack testing platform instead of abilities of the attack team.