Binary padding
The vast majority of Grandoreiro samples utilize a very interesting application of the
binary padding technique. This technique is all about making the binaries large and we
have seen it being used even by more sophisticated malware. We have also observed some
other Latin American banking trojans employing it occasionally, but only in the simplest
form of appending a large amount of junk at the end of the binary.
Grandoreiro chooses a different approach – a simple, yet very effective one. The resources
section of the PE file is augmented by (usually 3) grande BMP images, making each
binary at least 300 MB in size. Notice in Figure 9 that the size of the whole EXE is
425 MB, yet the size of the code is only 4 MB and the size of the .rsrc section 419 MB
(98.5% of the total size). After examining the contents of the .rsrc section, we see three
images with sizes of 112 MB, 112 MB and 105 MB respectively (taking up 78.5% of the
section size). We provide examples of such images in Figure 10.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/04/28/grandoreiro-how-engorged-can-exe-get/ 7/15
6/15/2020 Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE get? | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 9. Details of a Grandoreiro binary. Several Grandoreiro binaries are shown in the image on
the left. The rest show details of one such binary.
Figure 10. BMP images used by Grandoreiro for binary padding. Their artistic “style” suggests the
malware’s authors create them manually.
Because of the structure of those BMP files, compressing the binary into a ZIP archive
yields a file of only a few MB, making it much easier to distribute the payload. The BMP
files seem to change frequently, most likely to avoid detection. The images shown in
Figure 10 come from three different builds of Grandoreiro. The visible similarities lead us
to believe the authors update the images manually.
Let us look at the possible outcomes of this technique because, even though it is very
simple, it is surprisingly effective. The upload file size limit on VirusTotal was changed to
550 MB during 2019, but used to be 256 MB, so a victim was unable to scan the file using
that platform. Working with such a huge file is harder in general, making any automated
or manual analyses much slower. At the same time, it is very hard to get rid of these large
images while keeping a valid PE file, and by discarding the whole .rsrc section, interesting
~~-~~
information such as the fake pop up windows is lost.