Introduction
BRET ARSENAULT, MICROSOFT CHIEF INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER
A hallmark of the digital economy in the 21st century is the ability of employees to work from anywhere,
fueled by significant innovations in infrastructure, mobile endpoints, and communication applications.
Although there were increasingly more opportunities to work remotely in recent years, the COVID-19
pandemic catalyzed these efforts, forcing a significant portion of the workforce to work from home. As
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella stated, “We have seen two years’ worth of digital transformation in two months.”
43
The immediacy and scale of moving to a remote workforce brought along new security challenges. When
Microsoft recommended employees work from home even before governmental regulations required it, its
workforce was able to respond quickly. As long as employees had secure, adequate internet access at their
remote locations, they could continue being fully productive and, most critically, they could protect themselves
and their families from the pandemic. We were successful in making this transition because we invested in a
Zero Trust architecture, including MFA, ubiquitous device management, and conditional access enforcement. The
graph on this page shows how quickly Microsoft became a remote workforce and the scale at which we had to
manage the requisite infrastructure, applications, and personnel.
43 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/blog/2020/04/30/2-years-digital-transformation-2-months/Graph depicting employee badge scans from January 27 through April 27, 2020, with the peak at 102 thousand in February and dropping to 7 thousand in March.Icon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
Microsoft employee badge scans for building access
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 57
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY
As more organizations adapt to enabling secure remote work options, whether in the short or long term,
cybersecurity provides the foundation for operational resiliency. Successful transition in any type of disruption
requires a strategic combination of planning, response, and recovery. To maintain cyber resiliency, an
organization should regularly evaluate its risk threshold and ability to operationally execute key processes
through a combination of human efforts and technology products and services.
This chapter provides a look at three areas of risk that have become more apparent with the rapid onset of a
large-scale remote workforce. First, we’ll explain how organizations can support a secure, remote workforce
through the principles of Zero Trust, including VPN architecture and virtualization—which helped enable
Microsoft’s own transition to remote work. This section includes how we address security risks associated with
managing devices not owned by an organization (and often owned by employees and partners). Second, we
address the human element as fundamental to a secure workforce by looking at challenges such as insider
threats and social engineering by malicious actors. Third, we explore lessons learned as we engaged in an
exercise in enterprise resilience during the COVID-19 outbreak.
44 Based on 506 responses from U.S. security decision makers, representing organizations of 1,000+ employees (April–May 2020)Graph of CISO and other C-suite survey responses with respect to remote workforce concerns.
Security and remote workforce concerns
Security decision makers in the United States perceive their most common remote
workforce challenge as remote workers making choices that reduce security.
Securing personal devices for remote work and the increase in phishing campaigns
and identity fraud are also concerns. [44 ]
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 58
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY