Who Does APT41 Target?
Like other Chinese espionage operators, APT41 espionage targeting has generally aligned with
China's Five-Year economic development plans. The group has established and maintained
strategic access to organizations in the healthcare, high-tech, and telecommunications sectors.
APT41 operations against higher education, travel services, and news/media firms provide some
indication that the group also tracks individuals and conducts surveillance. For example, the
group has repeatedly targeted call record information at telecom companies. In another instance,
APT41 targeted a hotel’s reservation systems ahead of Chinese officials staying there,
suggesting the group was tasked to reconnoiter the facility for security reasons.
The group’s financially motivated activity has primarily focused on the video game industry, where
APT41 has manipulated virtual currencies and even attempted to deploy ransomware. The group
is adept at moving laterally within targeted networks, including pivoting between Windows and
Linux systems, until it can access game production environments. From there, the group steals
source code as well as digital certificates which are then used to sign malware. More importantly,
APT41 is known to use its access to production environments to inject malicious code into
legitimate files which are later distributed to victim organizations. These supply chain compromise
tactics have also been characteristic of APT41’s best known and most recent espionage
campaigns.
Interestingly, despite the significant effort required to execute supply chain compromises and the
large number of affected organizations, APT41 limits the deployment of follow-on malware to
specific victim systems by matching against individual system identifiers. These multi-stage
operations restrict malware delivery only to intended victims and significantly obfuscate the
intended targets. In contrast, a typical spear-phishing campaign’s desired targeting can be
discerned based on recipients' email addresses.
A breakdown of industries directly targeted by APT41 over time can be found in Figure 1.
https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/08/apt41-dual-espionage-and-cyber-crime-operation.html 1/4
8/8/2019 APT41: A Dual Espionage and Cyber Crime Operation « APT41: A Dual Espionage and Cyber Crime Operation | FireEye Inc
Figure 1: Timeline of industries directly targeted by APT41