2006
June 2006: Taiwan media reports that Chinese hackers attacked Taiwan’s Ministry
of National Defense (MND) and the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT). The attacks
may have been launched using socially engineered email and attempted to spread
misinformation about the MND in an apparent smear campaign. Attackers also
117 Tom Espiner, “Chinese Hackers US Military Defenses,” Silicon,com, November 2005.
118 Anthony Faiola, “Cyber Warfare: China vs. Japan,” MSNBC News, May 2005.
119 Bradley Graham, “Hackers Attack Via Chinese Web Sites,” The Washington Post, August 2005.
120 “NSC Computers Targeted in Hacker Email Attack,” Liberty Times, September 2005.
70
US-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Report on the Capability of the People’s Republic of China to
Conduct Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation
stole account login credentials from Chunghwa Telecom’s Web mail system, the
MND’s telecommunications provider. [121]
July 2006: US media reports that intruders penetrate the US Department of State
(DoS) networks, stealing sensitive information and user login credentials, and
install backdoors on numerous computers, allowing them to return to the systems
at will. DoS systems administrators are forced to limit Internet access until the
investigation is completed. While China’s involvement is not obvious, problems
were especially acute at the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, responsible
for policy coordination on China, North Korea and Japan. [122]
August 2006: Pentagon officials state hostile civilian cyber units operating inside
China have launched attacks against the NIPRNET and have downloaded up to 20
terabytes of data. [123]
August 2006: A Member of Congress who is a vocal critic of China’s human rights
record claims Chinese hackers penetrated his office computers and those of their
staff. [124]
November 2006: Chinese hackers attack the US Naval War College computer
infrastructure, possibly targeting war game information on the networks. The
College’s Web and emails systems are down for at least two weeks while the
investigation takes place. [125]