A public-private partnership against cybercrime is the only way to gain an edge over cybercriminals. This report provides key insights on how to achieve this together.
INTERPOL, through its Global Cybercrime
Programme, is facilitating law enforcement
cooperation and promoting police capacities in the
field of cyber. But this is not enough.
Against cybercrime, the solution can only come
from public-private cooperation. The private
sector plays a fundamental role in the ability to
understand and act against cybercriminals. Only
by ensuring that leading companies work side
by side with law enforcement can we effectively
respond to the cybercrime threat.
The World Economic Forum is well positioned
to promote this cooperation. With INTERPOL
and other primary stakeholders from the
private and public sectors, it has devised the
recommendations presented in this report.
Implementing them and continuing to work
together through the Partnership against
Cybercrime will drive momentum to amplify
collaboration in our joint fight against cybercrime.
Partnership against Cybercrime 4
Jürgen Stock
Secretary-General
International Criminal Police
Organization (INTERPOL),
Lyon
Of all the types of crime, cybercrime continues
to increase at the fastest rate. According to
INTERPOL’s recent assessment of the global
cyberthreat landscape, [3] cybercriminals are
developing and boosting their attacks at an
alarming pace, exploiting the fear and uncertainty
caused by the unstable social, economic and
health situation around the world.
While crimes such as burglary and assault are
more visible, cybercrime is largely hidden, leading
many people to underestimate its actual damage
or the likelihood of becoming a victim. But the
effects of cybercrime can be just as devastating as
physical crimes, impacting numerous individuals
and organizations everywhere.
To address this threat, we must create barriers
to entry, such as raising the cost of engaging
in criminal activities and the overall risk for
cybercriminals. Law enforcement agencies
worldwide are actively investigating cybercrimes
with the aim of prosecuting cybercriminals.