IRAN
↘
Iranian adversaries are
likely to place further
focus on the exploitation
of network services to
enable intrusion into
target networks in 2021.
Iranian targeted-intrusion adversaries were active throughout 2020. In contrast to
expectations related to major developments early in 2020, such as the killing of
Qassem Soleimani of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) Quds Force, the
overwhelming majority of this activity appears to have been espionage-oriented. Even
as the COVID-19 pandemic significantly affected Iran, these adversaries’ activities
more generally reflected traditional intelligence requirements, although there were
some exceptions. Notable developments included COVID-19-related targeting by
STATIC KITTEN, the emergence of a discretely targeted collection enterprise
adjacent to HELIX KITTEN, and PIONEER KITTEN being linked to eCrime activity,
shifting focus from intelligence collection to disruptive ransomware operations.
CrowdStrike Intelligence assesses with moderate confidence that Iranian
adversaries are likely to place further focus on the exploitation of network services to
enable intrusion into target networks in 2021, reducing — but not eliminating — their
use of other client-focused intrusion methods such as strategic web compromises
(SWCs) or spear-phishing attacks.
Discrete Separation of Targeting Between Adversaries
Throughout 2020, multiple Iranian targeted-intrusion actors were observed
exhibiting a particular behavior: targeting only a specific sector or geographic area.
Targeted-intrusion adversaries, including those with an Iranian nexus, typically
target multiple regions and sectors concurrently. However, in four separate
cases, adversaries with varying technical links to HELIX KITTEN each exhibited
a distinct and narrowly focused target scope during their 2020 activities. These
adversaries included HELIX KITTEN itself, TRACER KITTEN, and the activity
clusters DistortedShepherd and ScorchedEpoch. Table 7 shows these adversaries’
respective target scopes and technical links to HELIX KITTEN.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 42