A Closer Look
To drill into the details of these criminal operations we will take a closer look at one of the cases. On a winter evening
in February 2017, a credit/debit card processor’s fraud management system picked up a series of suspicious ATM
withdrawal transactions originating from the victim bank’s customer accounts during the late-night hours until the
early morning. The withdrawals occurred at ATM terminals located across the region, including Europe and the
Russian Federation. Notably, no ATM transactions occurred in countries where the affected bank had a presence.
In addition to requesting the Trustwave SpiderLabs team to perform a thorough investigation, the bank also reported
this incident to local law enforcement agencies. Undoubtedly this incident appeared to be multifaceted; it appeared
that the bank’s network was breached, and it also seemed likely that the processor’s network may have also been
compromised. Moreover, it was also likely that there was a physical facet to this breach, in which an organized
cybercriminal network was involved. The Trustwave team’s objective was to investigate the incident based purely on
available factual evidence and its unbiased interpretation.
The third-party processor engaged an independent team from Trustwave SpiderLabs to investigate the impact
of the incident on its network and its overall business. This way Trustwave could see the whole picture from the
perspectives of both the affected bank and the third-party processor, whose services the bank used for its card
processing functions.
The Trustwave team commenced both sides of the investigation immediately and was able to successfully uncover
what we believe to be a very interesting, if not entirely unique, modus operandi behind the successful breaches of
both the bank and processor networks. The objective of such an operation is the successful withdrawal of funds
from the rogue accounts created earlier, as described in this report.
The attackers used innovative attack tactics, techniques and procedures to successfully execute a long duration
“hybrid” attack campaign comprising two physical stages and multiple cyber-attack stages as depicted below:
STAGES OF THE ATTACK
Physical Stage I
Recruit mules to
open bank
accounts and issue
new debit cards
Cyber Stage I
Obtain unauthorized
privigeged access to
the bank’s network
Cyber Stage II
Compromise third
party processor’s
network
Cyber Stage III
Obtain privileged
access to Card
Management System
Cyber Stage IV
Activate overdraft
on specific bank
accounts
Physical Stage I
Cash-out from ATMs
in multiple cities
and countries
2
Copyright © 2017 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.
Post-Soviet Bank Heists: A Hybrid Cybercrime Study