Bandook variants in the wild
After comparing the Bandook variant we observed in the attack with the ones created by different leaked builders, we began hunting for variants more similar to the ones we observed.
Our search led us to tweets by the MalwareHunterTeam (MHT) from 2019-2020 that mention various Bandook samples — all of them digitally signed with certificates that were issued by Certum .
Figure 10: Signed Bandook samples discovered by MHT.
In the newer attack flows we observed, we once again found valid Certum certificates were used to sign the Bandook malware executable.
Figure 11: Valid signature information of a newly discovered
Bandook sample.
Analyzing all Bandook samples noted by MHT, we discovered that the very first of the samples was compiled in March 2019 and supported around 120 commands. A sample compiled a few days
later – a different signed Bandook variant (with only 11 commands) utilized the very same C&C server. Since then, all signed samples use only 11 basic commands. The shared C&C
provides clear evidence that both the slimmed-down and the fully-fledged variants of the malware are operated by a single attacker.
In addition to the Bandook samples that were reported by MHT, we identified additional samples from the same time period (2019-2020) which were not digitally signed and contained about 120
commands. These were the only ITW Bandook samples we were able to locate from this time period.
Several factors led us to believe that these signed and unsigned variants are specially crafted Bandook variants, used and developed by the same entity.
Both use the same domain registration services for their C&C domains: Porkbun or NameSilo.
They share a similar method of communication, using the AES encryption algorithm in CFB mode, with a hardcoded IV: 0123456789123456. This feature is not available in the public leaks of this
malware.
They incorporated commands that we did not observe in any other public leak or report. Most notable are the commands to execute Python and Java payloads.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/bandook-signed-delivered/ 4/7
11/30/2020 Bandook: Signed & Delivered - Check Point Research
Figure 12: Bandook subroutine to execute a precompiled Python from a file named “dpx.pyc”.
At this point, we have three different variants of the malware, which we believe are operated and sold by a single entity, in accordance with their chronological appearance:

A full-fledged version with 120 commands (not signed).
A full-fledged version (single sample) with 120 commands (signed).
A slimmed-down version with 11 commands (signed).

The move to a slimmed-down version with only 11 commands for signed executables may indicate the operators’ desire to reduce the malware’s footprint and maximize their chances for an undetectable
campaign against high profile targets (and high paying customers), while continuing the use of the un-signed 120 commands variant for lower profile ones.
Furthermore, such a minimized backdoor might indicate that the slimmed-down variant of Bandook is only utilized as a loader for an additional, more full-featured malware to be downloaded next.