2.1 Initial Access and Execution
Spearphishing Attachment (T1566.001), User Execution: Malicious File (T1204.002)
The threat actor obtained initial access in each of the compromised networks with the already described
approach of social engineering and spearphishing attachments.
Therefore, fake LinkedIn profiles for HR managers of well-known companies (e.g., Boeing or General
Dynamics Land Systems) were created. The profiles looked genuine at first sight and even an online search
for the profile names revealed real HR employees. First contact to obviously carefully selected victims – the
number of known victims is the necessary minimum per incident – was established at the end of February
until mid of March 2020. After introducing as HR manager with potential job opportunities, casual
conversation took place, which at least in one case switched over to WhatsApp after some time.
End of May 2020 malicious Word documents were sent to the victims in Europe with different approaches,
pretending to be a job description for a lucrative position at Boeing. The attachment makes use of different
malicious Word documents or ISO files consisting of a decoy
PDF bundled with a modified PDF viewer program. The
documents download and persist a malicious DLL in the
system.
Figure 3: Exemplary malicious word document
Further, the threat actor is extremely persuasive as well as
sustained. In one case, the victim attempted to open a
malicious Word document on his private notebook, which
had only OpenOffice installed. As reaction to his feedback
that the file is not displayed correctly, the threat actor
suggested to send the file to his company mail to open it with
Microsoft Word. However, the attachment was blocked by an
mail security platform. Therefore, the threat actor shared a
decoy BoeingPDF.iso via WhatsApp and asked the victim
to transfer the file from his cellphone via USB tethering to his
company notebook. Furthermore, the attackers explained the
victim step by step how to mount the ISO file and how to
execute the contained exe file. To keep the story alive, the
victim was contacted again after about one month with
another job offer.
© 2020 HvS-Consulting AG TLP-White page 7 of 27