Mule “projects”
Mule projects are a vital component of any financial
cybercrime. Such groups comprise one or more
organizers and up to several dozen individual mules.
A mule (or drop) is a holder of a means of payment who,
on command from the money mules manager, cashes the
money received into their/an account, or transfers it to
another account as specified by the money mules
manager.
Mules can be divided into two types: duped and non­
duped. Duped mules are people who, at least at the
beginning of their cooperation with the money mules
manager, do not realize they are involved in a criminal
scheme. As a rule, the task of getting and transferring
money is presented to them under some plausible pretext.
For example, the money mules manager can establish a
legal entity and appoint to an executive position (the
general or financial director, for example) a person who
will perform the functions of the duped mule: such as
signing corporate documents which will, in fact serve as a
legal screen for withdrawing stolen money.
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 21/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
Non­duped mules are well aware of the real purpose of
the money mules manager’s tasks.
The options used by the mule projects to withdraw money
are manifold. Depending on the amount of money stolen,
they may include individual credit card holders ready to
cash money and give it to the representative of the money
mules manager for a small fee, or specially created legal
entities, whose representatives open “salary projects”
(credit cards for transferring the salaries of company
employees) at their corporate bank.
Yet another common method for constructing a mule
scheme is for non­duped mules to open dozens of
accounts at different banks.
This advert offers sets of payment cards (the card, the documents
based on which the card was authorized, the SIM card with which
the bank account of the card is associated) that can be used for
cashing stolen money. For sale is the card issued by Russian banks
and banks from neighboring countries, as well as banks from the
countries of Europe, Asia and the United States. The Momentum­
type set is costs 3000 rubles (less than $50), the set with the
Platinum card – eight thousand rubles (about $120).
When the theft occurs outside of Russia, the role of the
non­duped mules is performed by a citizen or group of
citizens of an Eastern Europe country, who within a short
period of time visit several countries on the continent and
in each of them open accounts in their names. Then the
non­dupe mules provide the money mules manager with
https://securelist.com/analysis/publications/72782/russian-financial-cybercrime-how-it-works/ 22/28
2015/11/24 Russian financial cybercrime: how it works - Securelist
the data to access all these accounts. These accounts are
used later to withdraw the stolen money.