Bandook Malware Family
The other malware family used in this campaign is the commercially available RAT
known as “Bandook.” Bandook has been available since roughly 2007. This sample seems
to have been continuously developed and improved over the course of the last couple of
years. Unlike JRat, Bandook is only able to target Windows computers.
Core Functionality
All Bandook executables are similar in size. Generally, they are masqueraded with fake
Flash Player, Office document, or PDF document icons. None of the Bandook samples we
have found in this campaign have been configured so as to execute an actual decoy
document.
Normally, Bandook is distributed with an initial stub. This executable would contain
another PE32 binary as an embedded PE resource. Bandook makes use of a common
technique referred to as "process hollowing." It instantiates several suspended browser
processes and then replaces the loaded executable memory with the code contained in
the embedded resource previously mentioned.
As an example for analysis, we take the original binary with hash
b002e8b6406fbdf3de9bfcb3493e61c8a44b331f53125e8fed9daa351
c49fd34 and, more importantly, the embedded resource named "​O9897DDD​" with
hash
c447fd4d6e1deb794acde683bb2176becf353c6e1b2acdfced27c4413
711f6f0​.
Interestingly, this binary was uploaded on malwr.com in early June 2016 with the file
name "Form13.exe" (which might suggest a development version). Currently, the same
binary doesn't seem to be available in any other malware repository to which we have
access. In this case, the malware did not execute after having successfully identified a
virtualized environment, which might suggest the upload was potentially done by the
authors as an attempt to verify the evasion technique.
It is also worth noting that while normally the embedded resource is obfuscated in
binaries distributed in the wild, this specific case is the only one we identified with the
resource embedded in the clear.
ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION EFF.ORG 12
Network Indicators and Modularity
After some initialization, Bandook performs an initial beacon with the general
information and configuration details it previously collected. Then it expects a command
in response from the Command & Control server. If idle, the C&C will reply with
"
​@0000​", and the malware will keep beaconing back the title bar of the currently active
window, until it is instructed to do something else.
Interestingly, the basic payload isn't provided with the code to perform any significant
action. If instructed to do so, Bandook will download additional DLL files which provide
the specifically desired functionality. This is probably meant to limit the exposure of the
core modules to analysts, and to vet the infection before performing a full deployment.
In this case the available DLLs can have the names:
cap.dll
extra.dll
pws.dll
tv.dll
Ammyy.dll
We were able to obtain the first three DLLs, which were located at the URL
hxxp://axroot.com/plg10/.
The following is a list of overall features available in this version of Bandook:


Screen capture


Webcam recording


Audio recording


File search, creation, deletion and exfiltration


Spawn a shell


Get list of available Wireless networks


Get list of MTP devices


Monitor USB devices


ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION EFF.ORG 13