E mechanisms or exploit networks in order to sell initial access to other
criminal actors.
The relationships depicted in Figure 7 show that eCrime adversaries are not averse
to working with, or purchasing from, other actors in order to enhance their own
campaigns, maximize profitability and increase the possibility of their success.
The downloader Amadey Loader and SMOKY SPIDER’s Smoke Bot remain popular
among a variety of actors. NARWHAL SPIDER’s Cutwail v2 spambot was heavily
utilized by DOPPEL SPIDER, and MUMMY SPIDER’s Emotet was leveraged by
MALLARD SPIDER and WIZARD SPIDER. The banking trojan Zloader re-emerged,
supporting campaigns operated by sophisticated BGH adversaries.
SMOKY SPIDER Smoke Bot Pushdo NARWHAL SPIDER REvil RaaS PINCHY SPIDER
Smoke Bot
Pushdo NARWHAL SPIDER REvil RaaS PINCHY SPIDER Ryuk
Operates Distributed Likely Sold Develops Affiliate Of Likely
Access To Operates
Figure 7. Observed eCrime Relationships in 2020
Previous
Collaboration
eCrime
ecosystem
↘
A tectonic shift toward big
game hunting has been felt
across the entire eCrime
ecosystem. Ransom payments
and data extortion became the
most popular avenues for
monetization in 2020.
↘
While many established criminal
actors still operate out of Russia
and Eastern Europe, the complete ecosystem is truly global,
with newly uncovered marketplaces arising and maturing in
Latin America, Asia, Middle East
and Africa.
↘
Many criminal actors develop
relationships within the ecosystem to acquire access to
essential technology that
enables their operations or
maximizes their profits.
↘
Although the methods used for
malware distribution largely
remain the same, criminal
actors are finding novel ways to
bypass security measures.
.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 32
Banking Trojan Operators Continue to Evolve Their
Operational Model
As noted, access brokers focus primarily on providing varying levels of access
for sale on criminal forums. In keeping with this trend, CrowdStrike Intelligence
observed criminal adversaries that traditionally operate banking trojans providing
third-party access as well. Although LUNAR SPIDER has previously been known
to offer malware distribution, recent BokBot infections have led directly to handson-keyboard activity rather than deploying malware. LUNAR SPIDER has been
observed supporting SPRITE SPIDER Defray777 campaigns but likely supports
other BGH adversaries.
MALLARD SPIDER is also likely acting as an access broker for BGH ransomware
operators. There have been multiple instances in which QakBot infections have
led to the deployment of ransomware, including Egregor, Maze, DoppelPaymer,
MedusaLocker and ProLock . Given that MALLARD SPIDER has historically been an
insular group, they are likely selling access to these ransomware operators through
private channels.
Region Highlight: LATAM-Origin eCrime
During 2020, CrowdStrike Intelligence tracked multiple variants of informationstealing malware originating from Latin America (LATAM) and likely developed by
LATAM-based eCrime actors. These malware families include Culebra Variant, Salve,
Caiman and Kiron . The malware is available to purchase on underground forums,
resulting in its operation by multiple criminal actors. The most popular infection
vector has been spam campaigns that rely on social engineering techniques to
encourage interaction with hyperlinks in the email body, often using lure content with
a financial or COVID-19-related theme.
Though traditionally observed targeting entities within LATAM countries, the
campaigns occasionally expanded to Spain or Portugal, often repurposing the same
Spanish- or Portuguese-language content as the original LATAM-focused campaign.
During 2020, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed the use of new lure content and
languages, including French and Italian. It is likely that, having established their
TTPs, these eCrime actors are now expanding their focus to European countries.
Ultimately, a successful infection relies on the victim interacting with the email and
its malicious content, so tailoring the email to the language of the target country and
using emotive themes improve infection rates.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 33
Outlook
Enablers will continue to be important actors in the eCrime ecosystem. Similar to
LUNAR SPIDER and MALLARD SPIDER, it is likely that criminal actors operating
botnets will attempt to capitalize on their infections by offering access to others.
While enablers maintain a constant presence on criminal forums, more sophisticated
actors continue to support others through private channels. It is likely that as some
of these access brokers become more sophisticated, they may move away from
forums to sell their wares.
Criminal actors operating out of LATAM appear to be increasing and will likely
continue to develop and upgrade a variety of malware variants. As LATAM-based
criminal operators become more comfortable with their TTPs, campaigns using
linguistic ties to target European countries are expected to be observed in 2021.
2021 Global Threat Report CrowdStrike 34