ISRAEL
One of the consistent pillars in Iran’s foreign policy has been opposition to Israel’s
existence and support for anti-Israeli militant groups, such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and
Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Despite this, however, Tehran has been far less successful in
cyber operations targeting Israeli institutions for disruption and espionage. The documents used as bait in the Madi operation were commonly written in Hebrew or referenced Israeli security policies, and researchers have documented fifty-four compromised
entities in Israel during that campaign. [88] During the conflict between Israel and Gaza
34     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
in the summer of 2014, known as Operation Protective Edge, authorities claimed that
the Israel Defense Forces’ infrastructure was targeted by DDoS attacks launched by a
wide range of belligerents, including Tehran. [89] These DDoS attacks would align with the
known capabilities of Iranian threat actors, including the tactics used against the United
States and dissidents.
Despite a history of DDoS attacks and defacements of Israeli websites, Tehran’s ability
to inflict major costs on Israel through cyber operations has thus far been limited and
perhaps diminishing. [90] Given the sophistication of Israel’s cyber defense, Tehran has been
forced to focus mainly on soft targets, for narrow espionage opportunities and the potential disruption of civilian resources in the event of conflict.
Iranian targeting of Israelis, like U.S. nationals, emphasizes individuals focused on Iran
and regional policies. Tehran has engaged in spearphishing attempts against academic
institutions, national security officials, diplomats, members of the Knesset, and Israeli
aerospace companies. Similarly, Iranian actors have commonly created malicious domains that have emulated those owned by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee
(AIPAC) and have targeted employees of both liberal and conservative Jewish organizations in the United States and elsewhere.
While Iran has had some success in compromising smaller civilian institutions, it has not
visibly attempted to use these breaches coercively. The lack of immediate weaponization
of breaches is demonstrative of how strategic calculations shape outcomes. The destruction of banking information or medical data over nonexistential challenges to the Islamic
Republic is perhaps not worth inviting retaliation from Israel (a threat that Saudi Arabia
lacks). Tehran’s desire for signaling a credible retaliatory threat against Israel through offensive cyber operations may also be sufficiently served by the mere compromise of such
institutions. Cyber capabilities have certainly not altered the power dynamics between
Iran and Israel, and the difference in technical capacities likely shapes Iran’s posture
toward its adversary.