Formerly unknown rootkit used to secretly control networks of regional organizations
https://securelist.com/operation-tunnelsnake-and-moriya-rootkit/101831/ 1/33
5/7/2021 Operation TunnelSnake | Securelist
Windows rootkits, especially those operating in kernel space, are pieces of malware infamous for their near absolute power in the
operating system. Usually deployed as drivers, such implants have high privileges in the system, allowing them to intercept and
potentially tamper with core I/O operations conducted by the underlying OS, like reading or writing to files or processing incoming and
outgoing network packets. The capability to blend into the fabric of the operating system itself, much like security products do, is the
quality that earns rootkits their notoriety for stealth and evasion.
Having said that, the successful deployment and execution of a rootkit component in Windows has become a difficult task over the
years. With Microsoft’s introduction of Driver Signature Enforcement, it has become harder (though not impossible) to load and run
new code in kernel space. Even then, other mechanisms such as Kernel Patch Protection (also known as PatchGuard) make it hard to
tamper with the system, with every change in a core system structure potentially invoking the infamous Blue Screen of Death.
Consequently, the number of Windows rootkits in the wild has decreased dramatically, with the bulk of those still active often being
leveraged in high profile APT attacks. One such example came to our attention during an investigation last year, in which we uncovered
a formerly unknown Windows rootkit and its underlying cluster of activity. We observed this rootkit and other tools by the threat actor
behind it being used as part of a campaign we dubbed ‘TunnelSnake’, conducted against several prominent organizations in Asia and
Africa.
In this blog post we will focus on the following key findings that came up in our investigation:
A newly discovered rootkit that we dub ‘Moriya’ is used by an unknown actor to deploy passive backdoors on public facing servers,
facilitating the creation of a covert C&C communication channel through which they can be silently controlled;
The rootkit was found on networks of regional diplomatic organizations in Asia and Africa, detected on several instances dating
back to October 2019 and May 2020, where the infection persisted in the targeted networks for several months after each
deployment of the malware;
We observed an additional victim in South Asia, where the threat actor deployed a broad toolset for lateral movement along with
the rootkit, including a tool that was formerly used by APT1. Based on the detection timestamps of that toolset, we assess that the
attacker had a foothold in the network from as early as 2018;
A couple of other tools that have significant code overlaps with Moriya were found as well. These contain a user mode version of
the malware and another driver-based utility used to defeat AV software.
https://securelist.com/operation-tunnelsnake-and-moriya-rootkit/101831/ 2/33
5/7/2021 Operation TunnelSnake | Securelist
We provided information about this operation in our threat intelligence portal in August 2020. More details and analysis are available to
customers of our private APT reporting service. For more details contact: intelreports@kaspersky.com.