Malware Updates
Our evidence suggests that malware authors created Emissary as early as 2009, which suggests that threat actors have
relied on this tool as a payload in cyber-espionage attacks for many years. The Emissary Trojan is a capable tool to gain a
foothold on a targeted system. While it lacks more advanced functionality like screen capturing, it is still able to carry out
most tasks desired by threat actors: exfiltration of files, ability to download and execute additional payloads, and gain
remote shell access. It appears that threat actors have continually used this Trojan, and developed several updated versions
of Emissary to remain undetected and fresh over time.
We analyzed all of the known Emissary samples to determine what changes the malware author made between the different
versions of the Trojan. During our analysis, we examined when each sample was created based on its compile time and
produced a simple timeline, seen in Figure 2, to display the development efforts expended on the Emissary Trojan. It should
be noted that we know some Emissary samples have been used multiple times with different configurations, so the timeline
only shows when development activity took place on Emissary and should not be misconstrued to when Emissary was used
in attacks.
http://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2016/02/emissary-trojan-changelog-did-operation-lotus-blossom-cause-it-to-evolve/ 2/18
2016/10/31 Emissary Trojan Changelog: Did Operation Lotus Blossom Cause It to Evolve? - Palo Alto Networks Blog
The timeline in Figure 2 shows that the Emissary Trojan was first created (version 1.0) in May 2009 and quickly received an
update that resulted in version 1.1 in June 2009. The Trojan did not receive much in the form of updates until September
2011 when the author released version 2.0. Version 2.0 received one update in October 2013 before the malware author
released version 3.0 in December 2014. The malware author released version 4.0 in March 2015, but curiously created a
version 3.0 sample afterwards on June 26, 2015, which was out-of-sequence from the incrementing versioning. Between
August and November 2015 the malware author creates several new versions of Emissary, specifically 5.0, 5.1, 5.3 and 5.4
in a much more rapid succession compared to development process in earlier versions.
http://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2016/02/emissary-trojan-changelog-did-operation-lotus-blossom-cause-it-to-evolve/ 3/18
2016/10/31 Emissary Trojan Changelog: Did Operation Lotus Blossom Cause It to Evolve? - Palo Alto Networks Blog
(http://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/wpcontent/uploads/2016/02/emissary_compilation_timeline_with_olb_vertical1.png)
Figure 2: Timeline of development efforts spent on Emissary
The out-of-sequence version 3.0 appears to be an early variant of version 5.0 based on significant similarities (discussed in
the changelog section) that are not seen in the original version 3.0 and other earlier versions of Emissary. One campaign
code associated with of the out-of-sequence version 3.0 sample was “3test”, suggesting the malware author created it for
testing purposes. The other campaign code associated with the out-of-sequence sample was “IC00001”, which could
denote an attack payload as it appears to be a plausible code to describe a campaign.
While this may be coincidental, the out-of-sequence version 3.0 sample was created ten days after we published the
Operation Lotus Blossom (http://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2015/06/operation-lotus-blossom/) paper that
exposed the Elise Trojan that is closely related to Emissary. It is possible that the threat actors were prompted to make
malware changes in response to our research. Regardless of causation, the rapid development of new versions of Emissary
suggests that the malware authors are making frequent modifications to evade detection, which as a corollary suggests the
threat actors are actively using the Emissary Trojan as a payload in attacks.