Operation Details
Operation Lotus Blossom repeatedly targeted several Southeast Asian countries’
militaries and government agencies, beginning in 2012 and continuing through 2015. The
bulk of the activity discussed in this paper involves heavy targeting against both Vietnam
and the Philippines during 2013 and 2014.
All of the attacks use the custom backdoor
Trojan named Elise, which gives the Lotus
Blossom group their initial foothold in a
network. From there, they can install additional
tools, move laterally, and exfiltrate data from
the network. Elise is described in more detail
later in this report.
The operation relies heavily on spear
phishing as the initial attack vector, with
enticing subject lines and legitimate-looking
decoy documents meant to trick users into
believing they are opening a legitimate file,
as opposed to malware. A popular theme for
the decoy documents was personnel rosters,
largely claiming to be for specific military or
government offices. Another theme was the
use of attractive pictures of Asian women that
were sourced from the Internet. Some of the
information contained in the decoys could be
found on the Internet; however, it is worth
noting none of the military or government
themed decoys could be found.
In particular, the decoys used against the
Philippines were exclusively military and
FIGURE 1 + Elise backdoor samples and C2 infrastructure
government themed, with the bulk purporting
in distinct but overlapping groups.
to be related to the Navy. As we were unable
to find any of the decoys online, and they
purport to contain sensitive information, we have not included images of them, in case
the information is legitimate. One document is even stamped “Secret.”
While all of the Lotus Blossom attacks appear to be the work of a single group, the
infrastructure used to target each nation is largely separate (Figure 1). Each Trojan binary
in this diagram is connected to command and control (C2) IP addresses and domains
that are defined in the Trojan’s configuration file. Additionally, the domains are connected
to email addresses used to register them, as well as IP addresses they resolve to at the
time of the attack. These links create a visual map of the attacks, which shows that, while
the infrastructure is not identical in each attack, they are all connected. In the following
sections, we will take a closer look at the attacks on each nation.