Miti ation advice g
SVR actors regularly make use of publicly known vulnerabilities (alongside
complex supply chain attacks) to gain initial access onto target networks.
Managing and applying security updates as quickly as possible will help
reduce the attack surface available for SVR actors, and force them to use
higher equity tooling to gain a foothold in the networks.
Despite the complexity of supply chain attacks, following basic cyber security
principles will make it harder for even sophisticated actors to compromise
target networks. By implementing good network security controls and
effectively managing user privileges organisations will help prevent lateral
movement between hosts. This will help limit the effectiveness of even
complex attacks. Further NCSC advice is available via the links in the
guidance section below.
Detecting supply chain attacks, such as the Mimecast compromise, will
always be difficult. An organisation may be able to detect this sort of activity
through heuristic detection methodologies such as the volume of emails being
accessed or by identifying anomalous IP traffic. However, the actor frequently
uses malicious infrastructure located within the target organisation’s own
country, likely in an effort to frustrate detection efforts.
Organisations should ensure sufficient logging (both cloud and on premises)
is enabled and stored for a suitable amount of time, to identify compromised
accounts, exfiltrated material and actor infrastructure. Mail retention and
content policies should also be implemented to reduce the amount of
sensitive information available upon successful compromise. Particularly
sensitive information, including information relating to network architecture
and network security, should be safeguarded appropriately.
As part of Microsoft's 'Advanced Auditing' functionality, Microsoft have
introduced a new mailbox auditing action called 'MailItemsAccessed' which
helps with investigating the compromise of email accounts. This is part of
Exchange mailbox auditing and is enabled by default for users that are
assigned an Office 365 or Microsoft 365 E5 license or for organisations with a
Microsoft 365 E5 compliance add-on subscription.
With ‘MailItemsAccessed’ enabled, administrators are able to identify almost
every single email accessed by a user, giving organisations forensic
defensibility to help assert which individual pieces of mail were or were not
maliciously accessed by an attacker.