Campaign Overview
The targeted victim is a large public research institution in the United States. All activity reported in this paper was
observed in the summer of 2015. The samples discussed in this report are not available in public malware repositories
and we are not at liberty to share them. We are publishing a comprehensive set of IOCs and a Yara rule to enable
researchers and incident responders in the hope that this will help flush out other samples that might be identified in
intrusions or private malware repositories.
The incident involved the adversary obtaining ssh access to the target system and then using a standard GNU utility
(wget) to fetch the malware samples from the IP address 175.45.250.xxx Command and control communications were
observed going to a URL that has also been observed in PlugX samples.
The malware binary downloaded carried a date string in its naming convention that represented the very day that it
was downloaded. This is strongly suggestive of the malware having been compiled that day, which can further suggest
that a developer was actively associated with the operation. The binary was then renamed to strip this additional
information from the filename.
In this campaign, the adversary appears to use the second level sub-domain as campaign moniker potentially serving
purposes such as impersonation (spoofing) and target/campaign identification. This technique also seen used by
multiple Chinese actors including the attacks on Anthem, OPM and, most recently, the “Seven Pointed Dagger”
(Mynamar Election site compromise) as discussed by Arbor Networks.
Further, the first level domain observed is a Go-Daddy registered domain originally created in February 2015 to
a massive-scale, Chinese-based domain broker registered to the email address, “Bodfeo[@]163[.]com”. Note that
infrastructure detailed in recent reports on the use of Derusbi by the C0d0s0 group used the same registration email
and registrant details.
The hosts used to serve the malware and provide command and control functions were within the IP range for a
Korean hosting provider, Netropy.
We were able to correlate sharing of C2 infrastructure and capabilities between this Linux variant of Derusbi and two
Windows variants of the PlugX malware.
©Fidelis Cybersecurity TA_Fidelis_Turbo_1602 www.fidelissecurity.com 2
The Turbo Campaign, Featuring Derusbi for 64-bit Linux