Decoy Installer for Cisco AnyConnect Mobility Client
(MD5: 2F7E5F91BE1F5BE2B2F4FDA0910A4C16)
Figure 3 - Cisco Installation Prompt Presented to the Victim
©Fidelis Cybersecurity 2 WWW.FIDELISSECURITY.COM
TA#1020_FIDELIS_INOCNATION_1512
After being initiated by the initial launcher the legitimate looking decoy Cisco Installer process executes and becomes visible to the victim. The
target victim may choose to continue or cancel the installation, but despite a victim’s decision to cancel the installation the malware infection
continues under a separate running process. It silently begins to create and entrench the loaded malware into the system’s background. If the
victim chooses to continue with the Cisco installation the Cisco AnyConnect Mobility Client software is actually installed, as shown in Figures
4 and 5.
Figure 4 - Installed Files from the Cisco AnyConnect Software Install
Figure 5 - Execution of Cisco binary vpnui.exe (MD5: 68F1419721354EC1f78A71E10B54FCA8)
The attacker’s use of decoy software is the same as when a threat actor will decide to display a decoy PFD or Office Document, to give the
victim a sense that everything is fine and that there is no need to inform the IT or the Security team for investigation. But the decision by the
attacker to use a widely known security application as an embedded decoy is a slightly more sophisticated ploy to the average user or to a less
experienced systems administrator.
©Fidelis Cybersecurity 3 WWW.FIDELISSECURITY.COM
TA#1020_FIDELIS_INOCNATION_1512
Figure 6 - Signature Verified by VirusTotal
The Cisco AnyConnect, “vpnui.exe”, appears to be a legitimate application signed by Cisco with the following digital signature details:
Name of signer: Cisco Systems, Inc.
Signing time: Friday, July 24, 2015
Certificate serial #: 63 6c 75 43 dd bd f9 69 f4 73 16 0f 4b 09 9b 9e
By choosing common VPN software there is a high chance that the chosen vendor’s software may be in use within the intended victim’s corporate
environment. Some investigation by the victim into the legitimacy of the software title, like in Figure 6, is intended to give a sense that it was
the right thing in installing this security software. Also, users are bombarded by various software applications to apply security patches or by IT
departments to install new software for upgrades and increased security. Most security software runs in the background so it may be that users
have become more willing to run security software because they know they need it despite that they don’t know what it actually does or how
it is supposed to work, just that it is supposed to protect them.
The use of this Cisco application could also reveal that the intended targets of this attack may be a system administrator holding higher-level
privileged access credentials to multiple areas of the network enterprise and infrastructure. If this malware were to be copied amongst other
copies of an administrator’s software library, the system administrator may later confuse this malware for other legitimate Cisco software, thus
infecting him and/or another user to whom the software was forwarded.
Please note that this is not a vulnerability or exploit within the Cisco product, but a decision by the attacker to use a Cisco application as a decoy.
Other attacks have been reported to use similar security software lures, such as Juniper Networks and Microsoft Exchange.