reveals that the primary
perspective on the range of activities of threat actors,
helping to identify specific participants and their
potential connections to Iranian governmental entities. For example, the “sinkholing” of malware—the
interception of communications through the redirection of domain names—provides insight into both the perpetrators and the victims of
such campaigns. In other cases, the lack of professionalism by Iranian groups has led to
the disclosure of names, aliases, and email addresses of their members in malware code
and domain registration records.
This first-hand research complements numerous reports—based also on primary source
material—published by cybersecurity companies on specific Iran-related incidents or
threat actors. These publications provide alternative insights into Iran’s targeting of other
sectors outside the authors’ immediate perspective, such as defense companies and gov
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    7
ernments. An index of these reports will be made available online. [3] Interviews with targets of Iranian campaigns—including activists and scholars based in Iran and abroad—
help elucidate Tehran’s motivations and place the attacks in a broader context. Interviews
with cybersecurity professionals similarly provide background on larger industry trends.
The intent of this report is to strengthen policy discussions of Iran’s cyber operations by
increasing public knowledge about the nature of such activities. Since cybersecurity research is typically limited to disclosures of specific threat actors or incidents, such publications do not provide insight into larger motivations and observable trends. This report
differs in that it considers the historical patterns and the broader context of Iranian cyber
operations, particularly their relationship to changing political conditions. It also emphasizes the overlap between Iranian campaigns conducted against foreign government
institutions and/or corporate entities and those directed against human rights and civil
society organizations, commonly neglected stakeholders in cybersecurity policy debates.
A better understanding of the history and strategic rationale of Iran’s offensive cyber
operations must inform U.S. strategy toward Iran and future U.S. responses to Iran’s actions. This is especially true given the United States is reliant on an inadequately guarded
cyberspace and should anticipate that future U.S. cyber attacks against Iranian targets
could trigger retaliatory attacks on U.S. infrastructure. Iran’s recent history suggests such
an outcome.
8     IRAN’S CYBER THREAT
CHAPTER ONE