6.2 The MZIP file format
Cisco delivers software updates for Catalyst devices as a single binary file. This meant updates for all system
components were carried in this file, whether application software, bootloaders, or microcode. This warranted
a closer look into the format of this file.
The file format was identified with the first four bytes being "MZIP" and was referred to as such. Apparently, this
was a "Cisco IOS MZIP compressed image" as noted on some sources on the Internet. No specifications were
publicly available.
Some existing tools [12] were found which served as a starting point for researching the format, however no tool
was found which would handle unpacking of the images at hand. Naturally, the code that was responsible for
loading MZIP files should serve as the best reference, so the already obtained genuine bootloader images could
be used for that purpose. Quite a lot of references to MZIP were found in the HBOOT image, so the relevant
parts were reverse engineered.
On a very high level, the file format was very similar to what would be found in executable file formats – this
could easily be seen from what mziptools was intended to output: some fixed header data including an entry
point address as well as a collection of segments. This meant the file was simply a program image which was
loaded and executed by the bootloader chain.
Segments could also be optionally compressed with PKZIP or BZIP2. Judging by the presence of the usual
BZh91AY... signature, data in our files was indeed compressed with BZIP2. As data is BZIP2 compressed, it was
possible to apply usual tools such as binwalk for data carving and decompression of relevant sections. While this
did not add much insight into the file format, it served as the first step to understand what was contained inside.
While provisions were present for more complicated arrangements, the contents proved to be very simple: one
code section and one data section.
Some trailer data was also included. This contained some textual information possibly related to the build
configuration and provided versioning information which we didn’t really need. Appended there, however, was
the image signature apparently used to authenticate the image, likely to be RSA2048 judging by the size. The
signature followed the same format used to authenticate both HBOOT and BROM images.
To facilitate future research, a dedicated tool was also developed to unpack and recreate MZIP files.
12 https://github.com/bvanheu/linux-cisco/tree/master/mziptools
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 35
PUBLIC