The Epic / Tavdig / Wipbot backdoor
For this first stage of the attack, the threat actor uses a custom backdoor. In some cases, the backdoor is
packaged together with the CVE-2013-5065 EoP exploit and heavily obfuscated. This makes the analysis
more difficult.
The CVE-2013-5065 exploit allows the backdoor to achieve administrator privileges on the system and run
unrestricted. This exploit only works on unpatched Microsoft Windows XP systems.
Other known detection names for the backdoor is Trojan.Wipbot (Symantec) or Tavdig.
The main backdoor is about 60KB in size and implements a C&C protocol on top of normal HTTP
requests. The communication protocol uses
requests in the C&C replies, which the malware decrypts and processes. The replies are sent back to the
C&C through the same channel.
The malware behavior is defined by a configuration block. The configuration block usually contains two
hard-coded C&C URLs. He have also seen one case where the configuration block contains just one URL.
The configuration can also be updated on the fly by the attackers, via the C&C.
The backdoor attempts to identify the following processes and, if found, it will terminate itself:
tcpdump.exe
windump.exe
ethereal.exe
wireshark.exe
ettercap.exe
snoop.exe
dsniff.exe
It contains an internal unique ID, which is used to identify the victim to the C&C. Most samples, especially
old ones, have the ID 1156fd22-3443-4344-c4ffff . Once a victim is confirmed as "interesting", the
attackers upload another Epic backdoor which has a unique ID used to control this specific victim.
During the first C&C call, the backdoor sends a pack with the victim's system information. All further
information sent to the C&C is encrypted with a public key framework, making decryption impossible. The
commands from the C&C are encrypted in a simpler manner and can be decrypted if intercepted because
the secret key is hardcoded in the malware.
Through monitoring, we were able to capture a large amount of commands sent to the victims by the
attackers, providing an unique view into this operation. Here's a look at one of the encrypted server
replies:
Once a victim is infected and "checks in" with the server, the attackers send a template of commands:
Next, the attackers try to move through the victim's network using pre-defined or collected passwords:
Listing all .doc files recursively is also a common "theme":
In total, we have decoded several hundreds of these command packages delivered to the victims, providing
an unique insight into the inner workings of the attackers.
In addition to generic searches, some very specific lookups have been observed as well. These include
searches for:
NATO.msg
eu energy dialogue.
EU*.msg
Budapest*.msg
In this case, the attackers were interested to find e-mails related to "NATO", "Energy Dialogue within
European Unition" and so on.
For some of the C&C servers, the attackers implemented RSA encryption for the C&C logs, which makes it
impossible to decrypt them. This scheme was implemented in April 2014.