Sandworm/ Quedagh/ BlackEnergy
The Sandworm team is a Russian advanced persistent threat group that targets
systems of political targets of interest to the Russian Federation. Sandworm is likely state
sponsored. The group’s name originates from strings in their code and names of their C&C
servers that reference the Dune fantasy book series.
Sandworm has targeted governments and political organizations since at least 2009;
but the group also may have been behind the 2008 cyber-attacks against Georgia. The
Ukrainian government, NATO, the European Union, the European Telecommunications
sector, European Energy companies, and Poland are among the group’s top targets.
Attendees of the May 2014 Globesec conference were also targeted. Many of the decoy
documents used to deploy the malware were spoofed news coverage of political or economic
situations in Europe.
The new variant of the BlackEnergy malware, which is now capable of stealing
documents from targets, has been used against government institutions in Ukraine and
Eastern Europe. The initial appearance of the malware coincides with the conflict between
Russia and Ukraine. Trend Micro discovered that the newest variant of the malware,
customized by the group, can target ICS and SCADA systems. The group may have infected
these systems to monitor or sabotage systems that compete with Russia’s energy interests.
Sandworm delivers malware through spear phishing emails containing malicious
documents, such as a Microsoft PowerPoint attachment. The attachments either deliver the
initial dropper or exploit a zero-day vulnerability to install the malware. In some cases,
legitimate applications were trojanized to perform the installation. Through zero-day
exploits, the malware infects any system running a Windows Operating System ranging from
Vista to Windows, including Windows server systems. The malware only infects the victim
system if the current user is a member of the local administrator group. If the user is not an
administrator, then the malware will attempt to re-launch itself as Administrator or exploit
the Windows backward compatibility features to bypass UAC.
The BlackEnergy crimeware appeared for sale in underground Russian cyber-markets
around 2007. The malware was designed to create botnets for Distributed Denial of Service
attacks (DDoS), but it has since evolved to support other capabilities. BlackEnergy can create
botnets to send spam emails for phishing campaigns and it has tools to harvest passwords
and banking credentials from infected computers.
The BlackEnergy toolkit gained notoriety during the 2008 cyber-attacks on Georgia
during the conflict between Russia and Georgia. The BlackEnergy malware is available for
43
purchase in cyber underground communities; however, the variant used in Sandworm
attacks has been modified with custom code, incorporates a proxy server infrastructure,
techniques to User Account Control and driver signing features in 64-bit Windows systems,
and tools to collect documents. F-Secure notes BlackEnergy is used by a variety of criminal
and cyber espionage groups; so, Sandworm’s adoption of BlackEnergy, instead of writing
custom malware, may have been an attempt to shirk attribution and blend into the crowd of
nefarious actors to remain undiscovered.
The BlackEnergy toolkit features a builder application that generates the clients used
to infect victim systems, it features server-side scripts to create C&C servers, and it includes
an interface for the attacker to communicate with their botnet. F-Secure comments that the
toolkit is simple enough and convenient enough that anyone can build a botnet without
possessing extensive skills. The information stealing plugin of the toolkit gathers system
information, session information, a list of installed applications, a list of registered mail,
browser, and instant messaging clients, a list of network connections, and stored user
credentials for online and offline accounts, and exfiltrates the information back to the C&C
server via a HTTP POST request. New variants of the malware may also be able to capture
screenshots and record audio. On December 23, 2015, a Sandworm campaign against the
Prykarpattyaoblenegro power plant in Ukraine caused a severe outage. More significant
than the immediate loss of power, the threat actor, who is likely backed by the Russian
state, demonstrated that the malware, which has been regularly discovered on U.S.
networks, can severely cripple a nation’s critical infrastructure as part of a cyber-physical
campaign.