REGIONAL ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES
While Tehran’s disruptive cyber operations in the region have primarily targeted Saudi
Arabia, multiple Iranian threat actors have been observed targeting nearly every Middle
Eastern, North African, and bordering country. For example, Magic Kitten successfully
compromised victims across the Middle East and South Asia. [91] This pattern has been
repeated during Madi and subsequent operations up to the present.
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    35
Cyber espionage has provided Tehran further insights about its often politically unstable
neighbors. Iranian threat actors have shown a recurrent interest in the infrastructure
of neighboring countries, including Afghanistan’s National Radio, Ministry of Education, and government network. [92] Other indicators also suggest an interest in Pakistan’s
and Afghanistan’s security and defense organizations. [93] Fictitious social media profiles
and spearphishing campaigns have commonly targeted Iraqis, notably engineers within
telecommunications networks and political elites. Iranian groups have also maintained an
extremely active interest in the political institutions of Iraqi Kurdistan. [94]
In addition, multiple Iranian threat actors have engaged in spearphishing attempts
against dozens of individuals affiliated with human rights organizations, political movements, and independent media outlets in Yemen, where Tehran is engaged in a proxy war
with Saudi Arabia. [95] The Israeli cybersecurity company ClearSky found that 11 percent
of the targets of one Iranian credential theft campaign (Rocket Kitten) in 2015 were
connected to Yemen. These operations specifically support Iran’s position in the Yemeni
conflict, with recent attempts targeting prominent critics of the Houthis, the Shia Muslim group that Iran has been supporting in the country’s civil war.
Iranian actors have also reportedly targeted Syrian opponents of President Bashar alAssad’s regime in limited cases, including exiled Syrian dissidents. [96] There has been speculation that Iran has also supported the offensive cyber
operations of its traditional allies Syria and Hezbollah,