Key Takeaways


The malware self-identifies as “crash” in multiple locations thus leading to the
naming convention “CRASHOVERRIDE” for the malware framework.


CRASHOVERRIDE is the first ever malware framework designed and deployed to
attack electric grids.


CRASHOVERRIDE is the fourth ever piece of ICS-tailored malware (STUXNET,
BLACKENERGY 2, and HAVEX were the first three) used against targets and the
second ever to be designed and deployed for disrupting physical industrial pro­
cesses (STUXNET was the first).


CRASHOVERRIDE is not unique to any particular vendor or configuration and
instead leverages knowledge of grid operations and network communications
to cause impact; in that way, it can be immediately re-purposed in Europe and
portions of the Middle East and Asia.


CRASHOVERRIDE is extensible and with a small amount of tailoring such as the
inclusion of a DNP3 protocol stack would also be effective in the North Ameri­
can grid.


CRASHOVERRIDE could be leveraged at multiple sites simultaneously, but the
scenario is not cataclysmic and would result in hours, potentially a few days, of
outages, not weeks or more.


Dragos assesses with high confidence that the same malware was used in the
cyber-attack to de-energize a transmission substation on December 17, 2016,
resulting in outages for an unspecified number of customers.


The functionality in the CRASHOVERRIDE framework serves no espionage pur­
pose and the only real feature of the malware is for attacks which would lead to
electric outages.


CRASHOVERRIDE could be extended to other industries with additional pro­
tocol modules, but the adversaries have not demonstrated the knowledge of
other physical industrial processes to be able to make that assessment anything
other than a hypothetical at this point and protocol changes alone would be
insufficient.


Dragos, Inc. tracks the adversary group behind CRASHOVERRIDE as ELECTRUM
and assesses with high confidence through confidential sources that ELECTRUM
has direct ties to the Sandworm team. Our intelligence ICS WorldView cus­
tomers have received a comprehensive report and this industry report will not
get into sensitive technical details but instead focus on information needed for
defense and impact awareness.


4