INTRODUCTION
control systems (ICS) and is equally relevant across
a range of other critical infrastructure sectors.
By understanding the current tactics, techniques,
and procedures (TTP) that the threat actors used
in this attack, and those that are most likely to be
used against ICS systems in the future, security
professionals can use this case study to plan for
future threats against their own systems. Though
this attack targeted operators in the electricity
distribution sector, the TTPs illustrated in this
attack are applicable to nearly all ICS sectors
including oil and gas, manufacturing, and
transportation. A reconnaissance campaign
against US ICS operators in 2011–2014 using the
same malware family deployed across Ukraine’s
critical infrastructure raises the urgency of
understanding this disruptive Ukrainian attack.
ADDRESSING THE THREAT
In a series of unique, discrete steps, the threat
actors deployed malware; gained access to targeted
corporate networks; stole valid credentials; moved
into the operators’ control environment; identified
specific targets; and remotely disrupted the power
supply. Each task was a missed opportunity for
defenders to block, frustrate, or discover the
attackers’ operations before they reached their
final objectives.
The Ukraine incident also demonstrates that no
single mitigation can prevent an attack’s success.
The attackers followed multiple avenues to
eventually overcome challenges and move onto
the attack sequence’s next components. The most
effective strategy for repelling complex attacks,
therefore, is defense in depth. Layering defenses
can raise the adversary’s cost of conducting
attacks, increase the likelihood of detection by a
network defender, and prevent a single point of
failure. All mitigation techniques, from
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY
THREAT BRIEFING
This attack on Ukraine’s electric grid
is the most damaging of the increas­
ingly common attacks against ICS
systems. ICS operators reported
more security incidents in 2015 than
in any other year. Complementing
the detailed, procedural analysis
provided in this report, Booz Allen’s
Industrial Security Threat Briefing
provides a broader perspective
on the cyber threat landscape
ICS operators face. The Industrial
Security Threat Briefing includes
an overview of the emerging tactics
and active threat actors observed
in 2015 and 2016, as well as the
threats most likely to affect ICS
operators in the coming years.
The report is available at
http://www.boozallen.com/
insights/2016/06/industrial-
cybersecurity-threat-briefing.
www.boozallen.com/ICS     3
to identify related incidents, then analyze and
integrate their findings with this attack.
Analysis of public reporting was complemented
with a thorough technical analysis of recovered
malware samples used in the December 2015
attacks against the electrical distributors, as well
as samples from related attacks. Our technical
analysis was used to verify, corroborate, and expand
on existing reports detailing threat actor activity
leading up to and during the incident. Experienced
reverse engineers used disassembler and debugger
software to navigate through the malware code to
identify its capabilities and unique characteristics.
Reverse engineers used both static and dynamic
analysis, allowing them to see how the malware
behaves on a system with the freedom to run in
a debugger in order to force or bypass certain
conditions, thereby allowing the malware to take
multiple paths. By recording system changes made
by the malware, the reverse engineers were able to
gather key data needed to identify further system
infections, as well as potential mitigations. This
investigation also emphasized analyzing the
recovered samples within the context of their
broader malware family. Using YARA, a tool to
identify binary or textual signatures within malware,
analysts pivoted to new samples in an effort to
identify new capabilities and different variants of
the malware. This comprehensive report completes
the view of the attack sequence for this incident.
Acknowledgments
Several in-depth reports have been
released, each covering a different
facet of the December 2015 attacks
in Ukraine. The SANS Institute, in
partnership with the Electricity
Information Sharing and Analysis
Center (E-ISAC), [6] as well as the US
Department of Homeland Security’s
National Cybersecurity and Communi­
cations Integration Center (NCCIC) [7],
have both produced detailed reports
covering the incident. Security
researchers at F-Secure [8] and ESET [9]
have conducted extensive analysis of
the BlackEnergy malware, and
reporting produced by Cys-Centrum [10]
and Trend Micro [11] have sought to lay
out the common ties across the string
of similar, and likely related, cyber
attacks against Ukrainian critical
infrastructure. Each of these accounts
provides a different piece of the larger
picture, which this report lays out.
4 Booz Allen Hamilton
architectural segmentation and network moni­
toring, to access control and threat intelligence,
should be complementary efforts in a widereaching process and network defense strategy
that aims to protect the environment, making it
so difficult, expensive, or time consuming that it
ultimately deters the attacker.
OUR RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
Though the attacks against Ukraine’s electrical
grid in December 2015 have been discussed widely
in public reporting, this report seeks to build upon
the analysis to provide a more comprehensive
account. By analyzing the malware tools used in
the attack and using open-source intelligence
gathering, this report seeks to tie together the
wide body of existing information on this event
and fill the gaps in other reports.
This report leverages an extensive analysis of publicly
reported data on the attack, as well as our own
deep-dive technical analysis of recovered malware
samples used in the attack. Public reporting on the
incident and related attack data was collected
manually or through automated searches on publicly
accessible internet sites. The sources included, but
were not limited to, English and foreign language
media, advisories and alerts from US and foreign
government cybersecurity organizations, and
analysis by independent security researchers.
References to IoCs and other attack data were used
Our research and analysis of the December 2015
blackout showed that the attack against Ukraine’s
electricity grid was not an isolated incident, but in
fact a continuation of a theme of a steady,
deliberate attacks against Ukraine’s critical
infrastructure. This long-running campaign likely
reflects a significant, concerted effort by a single
threat actor with a well-organized capability and
interest in using cyberattacks to undermine