OPERATIONS
The threat actors behind the Luckycat campaign tested
one of their malware samples on a computer under
their control. In the process, they uploaded down.cab,
which contains a command that creates a directory
listing of the available drives on a compromised system,
along with the output of the commands, “ipconfig,”
“tasklist,” and “systeminfo.” We were able to download
this file from the C&C server. While it does not reveal the
attackers’ identities, it does provide an inside view of their
operations.
The result of the “systeminfo” command indicates that the
attackers tested the malware in a virtual environment. The
environment was set up using a Chinese-language version
of Windows XP.
Figure 5: Sample system information the attackers obtained after
testing on a virtual machine (VM)
We found that the product ID of the Windows XP software
used was posted online in the past. It was a pirated
Windows XP version that was made available for purchase
in China.
Figure 6: Sample ads for the pirated Windows XP version used
While the rest of the information we gathered did not
reveal significant clues due to the use of a VM, we found
that the attackers left a shared drive— D:\, which was
indexed by the malware. The index was then uploaded to
the C&C server.
Figure 7: Drive left available by the attackers that contains C&C
scripts and victim information
PAGE 9 | LUCKYCAT REDUX
In one of the directories— ccclllmmmm, we found that
the attackers put a copy of the count.php C&C backend
as well as a list of the victims and the contents of their
computers. We were also able to find that the C&C server
the attackers used was a victim’s computer.
Figure 8: Victim information on the attackers’ C&C server that is
identical to the the information on the attackers’ shared D:\ drive
To ensure operational security, the attackers installed Tor
and Tunnelier. Some of the email samples with malware
attachments, in fact, sent through Yahoo! Mail used Tor.
The use of this anonymity tool allowed the attackers to
obscure their IP addresses, making it increasingly difficult
for researchers to pinpoint their locations.
PAGE 10 | LUCKYCAT REDUX
Figure 9: Anonymity tools the attackers had on the shared D:\
drive
The attackers also had mailing software such as FoxMail
and Supermailer on the shared D:_ drive. While these tools
are not malicious, the attackers used these to easily send
out socially engineered emails. These also allowed them to
keep track of their various identities and email accounts.
One of the samples we obtained used the Chineselanguage version of _FoxMail.
The attackers clearly have operational procedures in place
to obscure their true locations with the aid of anonymity
tools. They also have a virtualized environment set up to
test and fine-tune their malware as well as the necessary
tools to maintain their various identities and send out
socially engineered emails with malicious attachments.