The same activity group?
A number of our intrusions involved tips from an industry partner who was able to correlate some of
their upstream activity.
Our threat intelligence analysts observed clear overlap between the various cases that NCC Group and
Fox-IT worked in the threat’s infrastructure and capabilities, and as a result we assess with moderate
confidence one activity group was carrying out the intrusions across the different type of victims.
Some overlap is very generic for a lot for a lot of groups, like the use of Cobalt Strike, or exfiltration to
OneDrive. But the tool used for exfiltration to OneDrive is very specific for this adversary. The use of
appspot and azureedge domains as well. The naming convention for their subdomains, tools and
scripts overlap too. In summary:
The adversary: Working hours match with GMT+8.
Infrastructure: appspot.com and azureedge.net for C2 with a strong overlap in naming convention for
subdomains and actual overlap in some subdomains between intrusions.
Capability: Password spraying/credential stuffing. Cobalt Strike. Copy NTDS.dit. Use scheduled tasks
and batch files for automation. The use of LOLBins. WinRAR. Cloud exfil tool and exfil to OneDrive.
Erasing Windows Event Logs, files and tasks. Overlap in filenames for tools, staged data, and folders.
Victim: Semiconductors and aviation industry.
We considered labelling them as two activity groups, as of the difference in victims between various
intrusions. But all the other overlap is strong enough for us to consider it as one group right now. This
group might have gotten a new customer interested in different data which changed the intent and
victims of the adversary.
But most importantly: The largest overlap is in the top half of the pyramid of pain: domain names,
host artifacts, tools, and TTPs. And these are the hardest for the adversary to change, and most
effective for long-lasting detection!
10/22
Figure 3: Pyramid of pain by David J Bianco
Fox-IT and NCC Group found some very strong overlap between what we’ve seen in our intrusion, and
what Cycraft describes in their APT Group Chimera report and Blackhat presentation. The bulk of the
victims they describe are in different regions than we observed which is likely caused by field of view
bias. SentinelOne also describes an attack and shares IOC’s that show strong overlap with the
intrusions we investigated.