IRAN: TARGET AND PERPETRATOR
Since the first publications on Iranian cyber activities in the summer of 2012—disclosing
a malware agent named Madi—cybersecurity companies and Western government agencies have routinely documented intrusions, disruptions, and other malicious activities
originating from Iran. [4] Yet aside from attacks that sought to subvert foreign infrastructure, these reports have rarely provided context about Tehran’s offensive cyber operations
and the motivations for attacks.
Tehran’s perspective is shaped by the many attacks that have targeted its own infrastructure. Since Iran’s covert nuclear facilities were exposed by an opposition group in 2002,
numerous foreign actors have staged intrusion operations that sought to gain access to
Iran’s nuclear facilities, economic infrastructure, military apparatus, and governmental
institutions, for both espionage and sabotage. [5]
Indeed, the most prominent example of modern cyberwarfare was the sustained campaign of sabotage—unprecedented in its sophistication and preparation—carried out by
the United States and Israel against Iran’s nuclear facilities. In what was known as Operation Olympic Games, the malware agent Stuxnet was used to sabotage components of
the Natanz uranium enrichment facility, resulting in the destruction of over 1,000 centrifuges and setting back Iran’s nuclear progress by more than a year. This marked one of
the first known uses of offensive cyber operations as a coercive measure between states. [6]
While Stuxnet was solely intended to degrade Iran’s nuclear program, other campaigns
sought to sabotage the country’s financial and oil infrastructure. In May 2012, a consor
9
tium of researchers disclosed another destructive operation against Iran. [7] Malware agents
known as Wiper and Flame, successors to Stuxnet, had been discovered when Iran’s Ministry of Petroleum and the National Iranian Oil Company computers were disabled, their
hard drives overwritten in a unilateral operation reportedly conducted by Israel. [8]
Coercive cyber operations targeting Iran continued following Operation Olympic
Games. In June 2012, amid stalled nuclear negotiations between Iran and international
powers, Tehran’s minister of intelligence claimed the country’s nuclear facilities were
subject to another “massive cyber attack.” [9] Later that year, Iran alleged additional disruptive operations targeting its Central Bank, Ministry of Culture, and drilling platforms
operated by the Iranian Offshore Oil Company. [10]
In addition to sabotage, foreign intelligence agencies have continually targeted Iranian
infrastructure for purposes of espionage, a fact made public to Iran through the intelligence disclosures of Edward Snowden. A former U.S. National Security Agency (NSA)
worker, Snowden leaked a presentation on a tool known as Boundless Informant showing Iran to be one of the most highly surveilled countries in the world: billions of Iranian
internet and telephone records have been collected by the intelligence agencies of the
United States and its partners. In fact, Iran is so frequently surveilled that a Canadian
espionage operation targeting Iran once stumbled across a French-run intelligence operation that had compromised the very same network. [11]