Terms
Malware – Malware is the catch-all term for any malicious code. Malware can take
the form of viruses, Trojan horses, worms, ransomware, spyware, adware,
scareware, or malicious programs.
Virus – A computer virus is malicious code that replicates itself when executed, and
may infect other programs or systems.
Trojan – A Trojan horse is a malicious program that tricks the user into installing it,
by misrepresenting itself as a useful or desirable process or program.
Worm – A computer worm is a self-replicating malicious program that may spread
to other computers and other networks.
Rootkit – A rootkit is malicious software that obfuscates its existence and that
enables an attacker to access a system or its files.
Vulnerability – A vulnerability consists of a flaw in system (e.g. a flaw in the code),
attackers’ access to that flaw, and the attackers’ ability to exploit the flaw.
Zero-day Vulnerability – A software flaw is that present at launch, but unknown to
the software vendor. Often, zero-day vulnerabilities are repaired by the vendor
through software patches.
Zero-day Exploit – Zero-day exploits are harmful vulnerabilities that are not
discovered or are not repaired by the vendor. Zero-day exploits tend to be rare and
expensive since the knowledge of their existence must remain secret lest vendors
repair the vulnerability.
Backdoor – A hidden program, or program component, that allows unauthorized
remote access to a computer.
68
Registry – The system registry is the database of system hardware information,
profile information, installed programs, and settings.
Privilege Escalation – Privilege escalation is the exploitation of a bug, design flaw,
or configuration oversight which grants elevated access to resources that are
normally protected from an application or user.
Command and Control Server – Command and control servers are also referred to as
a C2 server or a C&C server. C2 servers are the centralized system that issues
commands and receives outputs from infected machines (a botnet).
Legacy System – Legacy systems are old or outdated systems that are not
compatible with modern applications or programs.
SCADA System – A Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system
operates with coded signals over communication channels to provide control of
remote equipment.
Virtual File System – A virtual file system is an abstract layer on top of the user file
system. A virtual file system allows its user to access applications across multiple
file systems.
Air-gapped System – An airgapped system is not connected to the internet and is
not directly connected to any systems that are connected to the internet.
Exfiltration – The process of removing data from a system.
Adversary – The attacker, hacker, enemy nation-state, or malicious actor
targeting a system.
Advanced Persistent Threat – A group of attackers or developers who are
sophisticated, persistent, and who have access to significant resources.
69