Conclusion and mitigation
Xpert RAT reportedly first appeared in 2011. The first version of “Proyecto RAT” was published at the end of
2010. Both projects share similarities, and it is likely that “Proyecto RAT” was inspiration for Xpert RAT and
at least a few more malware projects, including the Visual Basic malware in the campaign we previously
described.
We can’t say for sure what this actor is particularly looking for, but multiple facts lead us to believe it is
designed for BEC or cybercrime rather than as an APT:
These campaigns are noisier and more prevalent than usual APT campaigns.
The same IP address, which is dynamic, is used to send spear-phishing emails and act as C&C. This is
more common to cybercrime.
Some of the targeted industries might not have access to sensitive information, but are likely to handle
a decent amount of money.
The windows titles that are listed in the configuration file are almost all related to financial services.
Our research shows that this campaign can deliver malware with multiple capabilities that can affect different
organizations and industries. It also highlights the importance of securing online infrastructures, particularly
the email gateways, to avoid targeted spam campaigns. Organizations should adopt best practices on
messaging-related threats and regularly update systems to prevent attackers from taking advantage of any
security gaps. Employing additional security mechanisms such as enabling frewallsi and intrusion detection
and prevention systems will help prevent suspicious network activities that may lead to data exfiltration or
C&C communication.
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 9/10
7/19/2019 Spam Campaign Targets Colombian Entities with Custom-made ‘Proyecto RAT,’ Uses Email Service YOPmail for C&C - TrendLabs Security Inte…
Organizations can also turn to Trend Micro™ endpoint solutions such as Trend Micro Smart Protection
Suites and Worry-Free™ Business Security. Both solutions can protect users and businesses from threats by
detecting malicious files and spammed messages as well as blocking all related malicious URLs. Trend Micro
Deep Discovery™ has an email inspection layer that can protect enterprises by detecting malicious
attachments and URLs.
Trend Micro™ Hosted Email Security is a no-maintenance cloud solution that delivers continuously updated
protection to stop spam, malware, spear phishing, ransomware, and advanced targeted attacks before they
reach the network. It protects Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Offce 365i, Google Apps, and other hosted and
on-premises email solutions.
Our technical analysis of the malware, IoCs, and other spam email samples related to the campaign can be
found in this appendix .
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/spam-campaign-targets-colombian-entities-with-custom-proyecto-rat-email-service-yopmail-for-cc/ 10/10