Analysis of Project Cobra
Project Cobra and the Carbon System were mentioned by Kaspersky in the article called
“The Epic Turla Operation” . This malware is used by the same actors as Uroburos (aka
Snake/Turla) and Agent.BTZ. We estimate that Carbon System was developed after
Agent.BTZ and before Uroburos. The Carbon System shares some technical details with
Uroburos and Agent.BTZ (encryption key, encryption algorithm, design, …) and some
other links, such as the name of the snake-related project: Cobra. Uroburos could be
considered as a kernel centric “snake” and Cobra Carbon System as a userland centric
“snake”.
One specification of the group behind this threat is the fact that when they developed new tools, the old
ones are not destroyed or abandoned but still maintained and used. Thanks to our collection of samples
we are able to draw the following timeline:
The Cobra can be considered as an extensible framework. This framework is generally downloaded and
dropped by a reconnaissance malware for example Tavdig, aka Wipbot (Symantec) or also Epic Backdoor
(Kaspersky). The following schema illustrates the “modus opandi” used by the Uroburos actors:
Using IOC (Indicators of Compromise) to detect this malware is quite complicated, because the malware
authors made efforts to randomize many factors. For example, the attackers drop the malware into
different directories, using the files present, also chosen randomly, to store the malware configuration.
Due to these characteristics, the experts of the G DATA SecurityLabs decided to publish an analysis of the
framework dropped by the file with the md5: cb1b68d9971c2353c2d6a8119c49b51f. G DATA security
solutions detect this file as Backdoor.TurlaCarbon.A (Engine A) and Win32.Trojan.Cobra.B (Engine B).
We can find the compilation path in a file embedded in the
dropper:f:\Workshop\Projects\cobra\carbon_system\x64\Release\carbon_system.pdb
Looking at this, we can easily identify that “Carbon System” is a part of the “Cobra” project.