A Year of Scanning and Credential Phishing on High-Profile Targets
Feike Hacquebord
TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted
upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the
particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing
herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro
reserves the right to modify the contents of this document
at any time without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy
is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise
related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to
the original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
Published by:
Trend Micro Research
Written by:
Feike Hacquebord
Stock image used under licensed from
Shutterstock.com
Pawn Storm has had traditional cyber weapons, like malware, in its attack arsenal
since at least 2004, [1] the earliest year we have been able to trace the group’s
activities. Back in 2014 [2] and 2017, [3] we wrote about the various attack vectors
and methodologies of this advanced persistent threat (APT) group, which is also
known as APT28, Strontium, and Fancy Bear. Over the years, we have unraveled
how the group has employed spear-phishing emails, phishing sites, and malicious
iframes, and how it targeted entities ranging from the defense industry and
international organizations to media and political parties. Today, Pawn Storm
continues to deploy malware against its targets, but it has also been seen directly
attacking web and cloud services instead of taking the more common route of
infecting targets through spear phishing.
Pawn Storm is a group that has shown ample resources and multifold strategies
in its operations. The group has targeted many organizations, harvested
considerable information, and attempted to influence mainstream media and
public opinion. Due to Pawn Storm’s notoriety, its attack methods have been
well-documented. The threat actors behind Pawn Storm have used sophisticated
social engineering lures, data-stealing malware, several zero-days, and even a
private exploit kit.
This report aims to shed light on some of Pawn Storm’s attacks that did not
use malware in the initial stages. It presents new data on the group’s credential
phishing, direct probing of webmail and Microsoft Exchange Autodiscover servers,
and large-scale scanning activities to search for vulnerable servers. Among the
group’s prominent targets were members of defense companies, embassies,
governments, and the military. We will also disclose how we were able to track
Pawn Storm’s credential phishing campaigns over the past two years through
careful analysis of DNS SPF requests of domain names used to name some of
their computer server images.