Technical analysis
In this particular case, we can’t reveal the victim’s name or any other specific circumstances but we did find
some noteworthy technical details, including:

The email was sent using the address, clearsky . cybersec . group @ gmail . com, which is obviously not

an official ClearSky address that the attackers created. Attentive recipients should realize that the
important information here lies in the address domain—a Gmail address—but very often, they tend
to intuitively only react to the first part of the name that indicates some kind of security problem with
their machines.
The first link in the email, “Trend Micro security,” actually leads to the real Trend Micro website,
trendmicro.com.
20 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2

The second link that the recipients are supposed to click in order to download HouseCall, however, leads

to a malicious file (HousecallLauncher.exe [SHA-1: af364ff503da71875b6d7c401a1e98e31450a561]) .
The attackers’ choice to use the Trend Micro brand as lure raised a red flag. It could have either been
a purely random choice or a very cleverly chosen one. Knowing that Trend Micro investigated on their
operations, they could have utilized this fact to create a false sense of security and trust with victims
who would probably believe it safe to download the vendor’s product. Perhaps this is also a payback for
revealing details on one of their operations.

The malicious file (HousecallLauncher.exe) is a Flex-compressed .SFX file with a lot of obfuscation

and anti-debugging code. It has three embedded files, namely:
• Data.ini: Only contains a path to the actual file.
• FILE1: An official Trend Micro HouseCall launcher binary.
• FILE2 (SHA-1: 457f54e9a0f32f2648f95a8e339d9fd9aed23fa7): The actual malicious
payload—a Meterpreter [2] stager.
When the .SFX file is executed, the payload is placed and ran in memory. No traces are left in the file
system, rendering detection rather difficult.

It accesses the same IP address (84.11.146.62), which belongs to IABG in Germany. This service

provider has already been used in previous Rocket Kitten operations. The malware obfuscates every
application programming interface (API) string in its body (using a simple XOR operation with the
value, 0xC4h). It also very carefully obfuscates its strings after use.

The code is literally littered with several anti-debugging techniques (IsDebuggerPresent, GetTickCount,

and ZwQueryInformationProcess tricks).

The code only has one function—to establish a connection with the IP address, 84.11.146.62, in order

to download a new binary. Once connected to the C&C server, the downloaded binary is injected into a
process, which is, in fact, metsrv.dll, from Metasploit. It has several export functions.
2 Meterpreter is an advanced, dynamically extensible payload included in the Metasploit framework. It can provide complex and advanced
features that would otherwise be tedious to purely implement in assembly. Developers can write their own extensions in .DLL files that can be
uploaded and injected into processes running on target computers after exploitation.
21 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2
List of export functions in the binary
In sum, the first binary only contains instructions to contact the handler, read the 4-byte value (the size of
the metsrv.dll file), allocate the required RWX memory in the remote host, download the metsrv.dll file,
and through a process known as “reflective DLL injection,” pass the control to the metsrv.dll file.
22 | The Spy Kittens Are Back: Rocket Kitten 2