ICS Vulnerabilities and Critical Infrastructure
Vulnerabilities in industrial control systems have long been an issue of concern to both the
security and technology communities. [36] Modern critical infrastructure facilities rely on computer
hardware and software continuously to monitor and control equipment that supports numerous
industrial processes, including nuclear plant management, electrical power generation, water
distribution and waste control, oil and gas refinement, chemical production, and transportation
management. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) categorizes 18 critical infrastructure
sectors as “essential to the nation’s security, public health and safety, economic vitality, and way
of life.” [37] The advent of the Stuxnet virus has raised questions on the vulnerabilities of national
critical infrastructure. In the absence of specific information on the full impact of Stuxnet, one
can speculate that all these sectors may be at risk.
Many observers fear that a successful infiltration and attack could degrade or stop the operation
of a critical infrastructure facility that delivers water, gas, or other essential utility, or affect
multiple facilities due to the interdependent nature of the nation’s infrastructure sectors
responsible for providing essential services. Sean McGurk, the Department of Homeland
Security’s Acting Director of the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
stated during a November 2010 hearing, “We have not seen this coordinated effort of information
technology vulnerabilities and industrial control exploitation completely wrapped up in one
unique package. To use a very overused term, it is a game-changer.” [38] Unclassified reports
suggest that the Stuxnet worm was specifically developed to seek out and exploit vulnerabilities
in software that manages ICSs found in most critical infrastructure facilities. One type of ICS, a
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, [39] is a computer that controls
industrial processes and infrastructures. SCADA systems can be accessed and managed directly at
computer terminals, either from remote locations that are connected to the control system, or
through the emerging trend of controlling these systems from mobile wireless devices.
In 2009, DHS conducted an experiment that revealed some of the vulnerabilities to cyber attack
inherent in the SCADA systems that control power generators and grids. The experiment, known
as the Aurora Project, simulated a computer-based attack on a power generator’s control system
that caused operations to cease. [40] The same vulnerabilities are said to exist in other critical
infrastructure, which, if disabled, could both cripple the economy and have physical
consequences; an electrical blackout for a prolonged period of time could potentially lead to loss
of life if essential services were not restored. Yet some experts argue that the cyber threat to
critical infrastructure is exaggerated, regardless of the perpetrators’ capabilities. [41] For example,
36 Guide to industrial control security, Department of Commerce, NIST, September 2008, http://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/drafts/800-82/draft_sp800-82-fpd.pdf. See also Interview with Joseph Weiss, Cyberwar Frontline, Public
Broadcasting Service, March 5, 2003, http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/cyberwar/interviews/weiss.html.
37 DHS website, Critical Infrastructure and Key Resources, http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/
gc_1189168948944.shtm, last accessed November 2, 2010.
38 Rob Margetta, “Stuxnet Could Be a Harbinger of Threats to Come for U.S.,” Congressional Quarterly – Homeland
Security, November 17, 2010, http://homeland.cq.com/hs/display.do?docid=3764486&sourcetype=31&binderName=
news-all.
39 For more detailed information on SCADA, see http://www.ncs.gov/library/tech_bulletins/2004/tib_04-1.pdf.
40 See “Challenges Remain in DHS’ Efforts to Security Control Systems,” Department of Homeland Security, Office of
Inspector General, August 2009.
41 Anthony H. Cordesman and Justin G. Cordesman, Cyber-Threats, Information Warfare, and Critical Infrastructure
(continued...)
Congressional Research Service 6
The Stuxnet Computer Worm: Harbinger of an Emerging Warfare Capability
although the computer systems that control electricity plants could be penetrated by a
sophisticated hacker, some infrastructure experts argue that the multitude of public and private
companies and the overlapping nature of their operations creates a resiliency that would make
long-term and widespread damage implausible. [42] Moreover, the North American power grid is
segmented into four large regions, reducing the risk of a nation-wide failure. Yet due to their
interconnected nature, it is possible that a failure in one system could cause cascading effects
across an entire region. An example of this was seen in August 2003, when high-voltage power
lines in Ohio came in contact with trees, triggering the automatic safety system to disconnect.
Safety mechanisms of other generators then shut down and severed links between them, causing a
blackout throughout the northeastern United States and Canada. [43]
Experts offer various recommendations to address the vulnerabilities described above. Some
information security experts advocate mandatory encryption of computer data in SCADAcontrolled utilities transmission and distribution systems. The Department of Energy is
undertaking research and development efforts to modernize the electric grid with new information
technology and thereby create a so-called “Smart Grid” [44] that will be more prevalent and
accessible throughout the nation and may also be more secure. However, some security observers
argue that creating a dependency on ubiquitous computer technologies will increase
vulnerabilities to hacking, worms, viruses, or other cyber threats, and that a multi-layered,
redundant network creates a higher level of protection. [45] Another option is to enhance the
protection of the physical aspects of the nation’s critical infrastructure, thus mitigating possible
damage from a Stuxnet worm type of attack and also better preparing facilities to respond to
natural or man-made threats.