Area 7: Notification and activation of NCMT and wider response workstreams
FA2.KF11 Core senior responders were notified
and the NCMT invoked quickly; however, the
notification of staff and wider stakeholders was ad
hoc and did not follow a pre-planned notification
process or channel
Core senior responders were notified quickly using
best endeavours via phone on the morning of the
attack, and the first NCMT meeting was held at
08:30 on the day of the Incident. [239] An initial ‘blast’
notification was also issued to HSE mobile devices at
14:00 [240] via Vodafone and Three network providers [241],
in an effort to inform wider HSE staff of the Incident.
However, there was no evidence to show this
process was formally prescribed and embedded
in the Incident Management Framework, [242] Major
Emergency Framework [243] or a Crisis Communications
Plan, nor was it aligned to an incident severity matrix
to ensure the correct level of response was activated
and involved (see also finding FA2.KF14) . It was noted
during interviews with several stakeholders, and in
the Lessons Learned Log that receipt of the initial
notification text was ad hoc and did not reach all HSE
staff members and contractors. [244, 245, 246] This was in
part because the recipient list did not include staff
members or contractors on non-HSE devices.
Interviewees noted that as a result of the ad hoc
notification process, some staff members and
contractors first heard of the attack on the local news,
or by experiencing the effects of the ransomware
attack first hand. Others received multiple notices
from various parties (including impacted hospitals)
and through multiple channels, while some never
received an initial notification. [247]
FA2.KR11 Design and implement an integrated
notification and escalation process and acquire
a means of mass notification to all HSE staff and
contractors (see tactical recommendation 3.1 in
section 4)
The HSE should implement a uniform and integrated
notification and escalation process within the
updated end-to-end response framework, supported
by an Incident Classification and Severity Matrix
and an ‘Activation Membership’ list detailing the
stakeholders to be informed, across all levels of
response, depending on the severity rating of that
incident. This will allow critical responders to be
notified of an event and convene at pace to instigate
a response at the appropriate level to any incident or
crisis impacting its operations or services.
The HSE should review whether the use of mobile
phone network providers as a method of sending
‘blast notifications’ meets the required functionality
for mass notification and, if not, should consider
investing in a mass emergency notification and
communications tool to improve its wider incident
notification capability. The solution should include
features for notifying all HSE staff members and
contractors or smaller groups of staff about any
serious incident, crisis or clinical and services
continuity event (e.g., a data leak where formal
notification and information needs to be disclosed
with impacted persons, physical or medical events
requiring safety instructions to be issued, or a total
system outage/ransomware attack). Clear authority
should be designated to an individual or individuals
with an appropriate level of authority to send
communications from this platform, to ensure all
messages are consistent and have been signed off by
the appropriate parties (e.g. legal).
239 Conti Cyber Response NCMT Structures Governance and Admin V1.10 31052021
240 Minutes of Cyber Attack MI Meeting 12 pm - 14052021
241 Information Management & Coordination Workshop
242 Incident Management Framework 2020
243 A-Framework-For-Major-Emergency-Management
244 Lessons Learned_ Programme Lessons v0.2
245 Site Workshop 2 (CHO A)
246 Site Workshop 5 (Hospital F)
247 Site Workshop 4 (Hospital E)
77 | PwC Independent Post Incident Review 2021 © 2021 PwC. All rights reserved.