5. Conclusion
Large-scale cyber heist attempts are expected to continue and to evolve – the attackers are focused on going
after large-scale payouts and will continue to mount attacks to achieve their aims. In addition, the desire to
disrupt and destabilise the financial system, as opposed to just stealing funds should not be overlooked as an
ongoing risk. Whereas many financial institutions are likely to be able to recover from just a financial theft, the
distraction and destructive components of some techniques deployed by cyber-actors during a cyber heist are
likely to have far greater operational impact. This can cost more to correct, as well as lead to a prolonged period
of downtime for the financial institution, significantly impacting their customers and the institution’s reputation.
Many cyber heists will continue to be detected and stopped, especially as financial institutions continue to
improve their controls. However, financial institutions also need to ensure they don’t become complacent. Threat
actors have shown they will persist to seek to find ways around controls, including collaborating between groups
where combining their skills will provide the desired reward for each threat actor.
Ultimately, some large-scale cyber heist attacks will unfortunately continue to be successful. Therefore, as
money laundering is essential to a threat group realising the benefits of a successful large-scale cyber heist, a
focus on seeking to disrupt criminal activity throughout the money laundering process should continue.
Threat groups will continue to collaborate throughout the money laundering lifecycle, leveraging the global
criminal skillsets available and the willingness of many people to be tempted by the lure of an apparent quick
and easy payday. Particular focus therefore should apply to the money-muling activities and also to the
use of front companies. Collaboration will be key in these areas, both inter-organisational, within jurisdictions
and internationally. In addition, awareness of new money laundering techniques, such as those involving
cryptocurrency, will be key to staying ahead of the challenge of reducing the opportunities for threat groups to
benefit from committing high-value cyber heists.
baesystems.com/SWIFT 27 // 28