Prototype Nation
The Chinese Cybercriminal Underground in 2015
TREND MICRO LEGAL DISCLAIMER
The information provided herein is for general information
and educational purposes only. It is not intended and
should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The
information contained herein may not be applicable to all
situations and may not reflect the most current situation.
Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted
upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the
particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing
herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro
reserves the right to modify the contents of this document
at any time without prior notice.
Translations of any material into other languages are
intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy
is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise
related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to
the original language official version of the document. Any
discrepancies or differences created in the translation are
not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or
enforcement purposes.
Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include
accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro
makes no warranties or representations of any kind as
to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree
that access to and use of and reliance on this document
and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro
disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied.
Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating,
producing, or delivering this document shall be liable
for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct,
indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits,
or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to,
use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of
this document, or any errors or omissions in the content
thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for
use in an “as is” condition.
Two years after publishing our last report on the wares and services
traded in the bustling Chinese underground [1], we found that the market’s
operations further expanded. Traditional malware designed to run
on all platforms as well as mentorship and hacking services are still
heavily present. But with time come new innovations—ones that are
now gaining popularity among China’s tech-savviest crooks. New
hardware and channels have gone beyond being mere proofs of concept
(PoCs) to become the working models driving the cybercrime trends in
China today.
We saw increased Chinese underground activity over a 10-month period.
Chinese-speaking cybercriminals, regardless of nationality, continued
to abuse popular Web services like the instant-messaging (IM) app, QQ,
to communicate with peers. Through these channels, they offer botnet
services used to instigate distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks along
with products like exploit kits.
Our past explorations of the Chinese underground, including their thriving
mobile underground [2], showed how quickly cybercriminals adapted to
technological advancements and existing trends. 2015 was no different,
as evidenced by the presence of several recently developed leaked-data
search engines.
We have also seen the production and sale of new hardware like point-of
sale (PoS) and automated teller machine (ATM) skimmers. These come with
training services that teach cybercriminals how to use the said hardware.
Skimmers like these offer cybercriminals a lucrative business model that
can negatively affect small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs).
The presence of these offerings show just how well the Chinese underground
has not only kept up with events in the real world, but how it is also leading
the way in terms of cybercriminal innovation. Other markets—especially
those in regions with frequent data-breach- or PoS-related cases—may
soon follow.
SECTION 1