1.5 Conclusion
The analysis of the four incidents clearly shows that those actions are part of a very targeted and planned
campaign. This campaign has access to vast resources, e.g., a complex C2 and data exfiltration
infrastructure consisting of various compromised websites.
Comparing the described activities of the Lazarus Group to various other analyzed incidents of groups like
Chafer, Winnti or OceanLotus, it attracted our attention that Lazarus made less mistakes. They performed
the attacks straight forward with a clear objective and cleaned up their traces cautiously.
The observed toolset is very flexible, can replace C2 infrastructure on the fly and runs completely in
memory. Furthermore, the group showed mature capabilities for tunneling traffic and overjumping “air
gaps”, respectively internet isolation of systems and networks.
The main lessons learned are:


Entry point is very often the user. The attackers use also different communication media, like
LinkedIn or WhatsApp and company mail. Companies should train their users to detect and
prevent spear phishing attacks and provide a clear and easy to use reporting processes.


Although the technical level of the attackers is quite advanced, basic protective measures like
automatically updated URL block lists in the proxy help with early detection and slowing down of
such attacks.


If you recognize similar TTPs or IOCs in your infrastructure, you should carry out very serious
incident analysis, before trying to contain the incident. Otherwise, evidence may be gone, and
attackers still might have access to the network. As in case of reinfection, the attackers reuse
previously compromised assets. Hence the usage of deception approaches (replacing
compromised accounts and systems and monitor the usage of the old ones) could help for
detection.


Mature EDR solutions on all endpoints (clients and servers) are crucial to understand such attacks.
Due to in memory operation only few evidence is left on disks. The detail level of the forensic
results as e.g., the grade of compromise and accessed information strongly depends on the
analyzable records. Thanks to the wide coverage of a sophisticated EDR solution in one of the
incidents, we have been able to draw a very comprehensive picture. In one of the other incidents,
many facts remain unclear, because the customer had just a basic EDR in place. Without EDR even
the identification of compromised systems was quite hard.


© 2020 HvS-Consulting AG TLP-White page 6 of 27