~~Our 2021 focus areas~~
Supply chain, IoT, and OT
security
The highly publicized events of the last year have
made clear that securing and managing risks
associated with supplier ecosystems is critically
important. This chapter covers some current
challenges in doing so in the supplier ecosystem
and presents how Microsoft thinks about end-to
end supply chain security in nine investment areas.
Then we turn our discussion to what we’re seeing
in the Internet of Things (IoT) and operational
technology (OT) threat landscape, with guidance on
the properties of highly secured devices. We include
specialized use cases of IoT and present some new
research informing IoT policy considerations.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
2021 brought powerful reminders that to protect
the future we must understand the threats of the
present. This requires that we continually share data
and insights in new ways. Certain types of attacks
have escalated as cybercriminals change tactics,
leveraging current events to take advantage of
vulnerable targets and advance their activity through
new channels. Change brings opportunity—for both
attackers and defenders—and this report will focus
on the threats that are most novel and relevant to
the community as we look to the months ahead.
Looking at the threat landscape, along with data
and signals from cross-company teams, five top
level areas emerged as most critical to bring into the
sharpest focus in this report: the state of cybercrime;
nation state threats; supplier ecosystems, Internet
of Things (IoT), and operational technology (OT)
security; the hybrid workforce; and disinformation.
To provide the greatest benefit, we also extract our
recommendations and actionable learnings, and
present them throughout the report and in our
concluding chapter.
The state of cybercrime
In this chapter, we discuss new developments in
the cybercrime economy and the growing market
for cybercrime services. We provide updates and
analysis of what we are seeing in ransomware and
extortion, phishing and other malicious email,
malware, and the use of domains by cybercriminals,
presenting recommendations for mitigating risk
in each area. Finally, we share what we’re seeing in
adversarial machine learning and what we are doing
to stay ahead of cybercriminals in this area.
Nation state threats
This chapter provides an update on what we’re
seeing in nation state adversarial activity, including
reports on seven activity groups we have not
previously mentioned publicly. We provide an
analysis of the evolving threats in this watershed
year with an increased focus on on-premises servers
and the exposure of widespread supply chain
vulnerabilities. We conclude with a discussion about
private sector offensive actors and our guidance for
comprehensive protections.
5
TOC INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Our 2021 focus areas
Hybrid workforce security
This chapter is about our greatest asset, our people.
As we have moved to a hybrid workforce over
the past year, we’ve seen developments in the
threat landscape which point to the importance
of adopting a Zero Trust approach. We include
threat signals and other data across the six pillars
of Zero Trust—identities, endpoints, applications,
network, infrastructure, and data—and provide
guidance based on what we’re seeing. We conclude
with discussions about insider threats in hybrid
work environments, and an empathy imperative
for managing the new and significant challenges
encountered by today’s workforce.
Disinformation
This chapter addresses the unprecedented
disinformation campaigns and related cyber
operations by state and non-state actors,
impacting public awareness and knowledge as
well as enterprise operations. We look at some
parallels in cybersecurity and discuss mitigation
through media literacy. We include a discussion on
disinformation as an enterprise disruptor, providing
a four-point plan for enterprise executives. The
chapter concludes with an in-depth exploration of
political campaign security and election integrity,
two areas that have been targeted by disinformation
campaigns.
Actionable insights
We open this year’s concluding chapter with a
discussion of five paradigm shifts that will center the
evolution of work around the inclusivity of people
and data. The chapter concludes with a distilled look
at the key learnings from all the previous chapters
of this report: to minimize impact of attacks we
must truly practice good cyber hygiene, implement
architectures that support the principles of Zero
Trust, and ensure cyber risk management is built into
the business.
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
CHAPTER 2