A hypothetical cloud security breach incident
Figure 17: A hypothetical cloud security breach scenario
December 2019 21
Sophos 2020 Threat Report
Cloud instances can be breached in any number of ways, and for a wide variety of reasons.
Some criminals continue to try to spread malicious cryptominers even onto major cloud
platforms, despite the declining return on investment such schemes deliver, because, after all,
the resources required for cryptomining don't belong to the criminal and cost them nothing.
In our hypothetical scenario, a large company with several software developers uses a
popular code management platform (the "code repo," or repository) to store the software
changes the company's developers are building. The company, however, creates only a
single password for that code management account, and shares it with all the developers.
One of the developers brings the password home so he can work on a business
project, but doesn't realize that his child tried to load a free game onto the home
computer, and the computer is now infected with a credential-stealing malware.
The malware dutifully scavenges the credentials, shipping them back to its command
and control server. The criminal operating this bot recognizes the value of the credential,
then logs into the admin's cloud computing administration page. Using the administrative
credential, the criminal provisions hundreds of new machines on the victim's account,
hardens them using the cloud computing platform's APIs, installs a cryptominer on
them, and leaves them to peg the CPU at 100% for days – all at the victim's expense.
Unfortunately for the victim, they only discover the problem days later, when the
cloud computing platform sends the victim an alert that they may be spending a lot
more than they want to. The criminal finds that while they are no longer collecting
cryptocurrency from this particular victim, they can invest some of what they've
already collected into buying more malware services, and the cycle continues.
December 2019 22
Sophos 2020 Threat Report