Quality of execution
We were able to collect numerous different samples of malicious scripts, executables and
documents used by the Gamaredon group throughout their campaigns. We noticed
several mistakes in these, especially in scripts. It is of course impossible to know the
exact reason behind these bugs or oversights, but the volume of samples the group
produces and their rapid development could explain it. The fact that there were
comments left in the source code included in some C# compiler module samples or that
the Russian encoding was wrong in email generated by the Outlook VBA module shows
that there is no stringent review or testing before releasing their many tools and using
them in the wild.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/06/11/gamaredon-group-grows-its-game/ 9/13
8/24/2020 Gamaredon group grows its game | WeLiveSecurity
However, while these errors might lower their tools’ overall effectiveness, this group’s
rapid execution and adaptation also has some advantages. The volume and
relentlessness of the attacks can create a state of constant dread in their targets. And
although the code is very simple, some techniques, such as script obfuscation, make it
hard to fully automate the analysis, making the analyst’s job tedious.
Their GitHub project allowed us a glimpse into the rapid development of their tools. The
code that was committed there clearly showed the evolution of the C# downloader. The
first versions showed no signs of obfuscation; then the developers added different string
obfuscations and junk code to make the analysis harder.
In terms of persistence, several different techniques are used, but the most common
ones are scheduled tasks, autorun registry keys and leveraging the Startup folder.
Although these techniques are very simple and have been known for a long time, the
Gamaredon group’s strategy of trying to install multiple scripts and executables on each
system, and constantly updating them, significantly complicates the defender’s lives.