Targets: From Asia-Pacific to the US
Quality trumps quantity as far as Iron Tiger goes. It targets fewer individuals and organizations compared
with other campaigns like Russia-based cyber-espionage operation, Pawn Storm [3] . Yet like Pawn Storm,
Iron Tiger also spies on organizations where they are based.
China — 2010
Education
Hong Kong — 2010
Others (political organizations)
Philippines — 2010
Government
Tibet — 2010
Others (political organizations)
United States — 2013
Technology
United States — 2013
Telecommunications
United States — 2013
Energy
United States — 2013
Manufacturing
Global distribution of Iron Tiger’s targets
The actors first monitored targets in the education industry in China, political dissidents in Hong Kong,
government agencies in the Philippines, and political targets in Tibet as far back as 2010. We believe
individual targets from each country were picked to gather inside information on political events that
prevailed at the time.
The actors use spear-phishing email subjects that would be interesting to their chosen targets. They used
“Han Zheng stays at Regent Pan—Housing protest held in advance” as lure to entice curious political targets
to join a protest against then-mayor of Shanghai [4] . Other subjects exposed the attackers’ aim to target very
important persons (VIPs), engineers, and/or public relations (PR) or communication officers.
4 | Operation Iron Tiger
Sample spear-phishing email sent to targets (subject in English, “Han Zheng stays at Regent Pan—
Housing protest held in advance”)
In 2013, Iron Tiger’s targets changed. After achieving cyberspying feats, the attackers set out to catch
bigger fish—individuals in defense- and technology-related fields like aerospace, energy, intelligence,
nuclear engineering, and telecommunications. Looking at the targets, we believe the attackers constantly
monitored high-technology contractors of the US government.
Up to terabytes of stolen data
The actors are believed to have stolen up to terabytes of data, given the sheer amount of information
they gathered from each target. They were able to extract as much as 58GB worth of data from a single
organization. This was even more than the 40GB worth of data leaked after the Sony Pictures hack [5] .
5 | Operation Iron Tiger
Types of data stolen by the Iron Tiger actors
A compromised Microsoft® Exchange™ server
showed that Iron Tiger uses various exfiltration
routines. They install two different backdoors—
BKDR_PLUGX.XXT and Dllshellexc2010 (which
specifically affects Microsoft Exchange). They
rename files prior to extraction using extensions
like .CSS to bypass security protections put in
place for archived files (.ZIP, .7z, .RAR, etc.).
Actual content found inside a 58GB archive
stolen from a single target organization
Content of a .7z file named “txt.css” generated
by the attackers on a compromised network
6 | Operation Iron Tiger
The actors also use Robocopy, an application that lets users remotely copy files to local hard drives in order
to extract them from a server. Finally, they export mailboxes to a .PST file using the “Export-Mailbox”
PowerShell command. Data meant to be stolen is always stored as encrypted .7z files in the Microsoft
Outlook® Web App (OWA) folder.