Malware use
Multifunctional Trojans constitute a growing share of attacks. For example, the DanaBot modular Trojan
we wrote about in Q1 now has ransomware capabilities. By comparison, another well-known piece of
ransomware, GandCrab, wound down and its operators announced the end of the malicious campaign.
Several weeks after reports indicated the end of development of the ransomware, security researchers
disclosed they had obtained access to the GandCrab servers. With the help of the encryption keys
stored there, it was possible to make a decryption program for the latest version of GandCrab so that
victims could recover their encrypted files.
Despite these events, the rate of ransomware attacks remains high. Creating a simple strain of ransom
ware does not even require custom code development. Most new ransomware is very similar to what al
ready exists. Instead of developing code from scratch, cybercriminals can now just acquire ready-to-use
code or pay for a subscription (ransomware as a service) on the darkweb. So even with minimal upfront
investment, ransomware can bring a sizable income.
Reports have periodically appeared since April 2019 of attacks by new Sodinokibi ransomware. At least
three IT service providers have fallen victim to it. Cybercriminals have used remote administration tools
(Webroot and Kaseya) to install ransomware on the systems of clients of the compromised IT service
providers. But Sodinokibi has a few other tricks up its sleeve, in addition to supply chain attacks. It also
is spread via vulnerabilities in Oracle WebLogic Server and in phishing messages.
7% 5% 4% 7% 32%
10% 7% 5% 5% 20%
in attacks on in attacks on
organizations individuals
Spyware
Adware
Multifunctional malware
RATs
Ransomware
Miners
Banking Trojans
Droppers
Other
9% 9% 27%
12% 12% 12% 17%
Figure 8. Types of malware
Email continues to be the most popular method for delivering malware. In Q2, experts noticed an uptick
in cases of Trojans being spread in the ISO disk image format. This trick has been used by AgentTesla,
LokiBot, and NanoCore. ISO images are often not scanned by antivirus software, since they may be
whitelisted. One giveaway is the file size: a malicious disk image will be smaller than 2 megabytes, while
a legitimate one will usually be much larger.
10
1% 4% 48%
7% 29%
1%
7%
39%
15%
in attacks on in attacks on
organizations individuals
24%
Email
Compromised servers
and workstations
Websites
Official app stores
Chat and SMS messages
Other
Figure 9. Malware distribution methods
We saw renewed criminal interest in cryptojacking in Q2 2019. With the Bitcoin price rising steadily, at
tackers continue to develop software for stealthy mining. Researchers at Sucuri discovered a miner with
improved persistence mechanisms: a special cron job (which is run periodically according to a schedule)
allows resuming mining even if the main malware module has been detected and removed from the
infected system.
Attackers widely distributed the AZORult infostealer in the second quarter. For instance, the experts at
the Positive Technologies Expert Security Center (PT ESC) in early April noted that the RTM group had
started using AZORult instead of Pony. In addition, the AZORult Trojan spreads via websites under the
guise of various utilities (such as the G-Cleaner system optimizer or Pirate Chick VPN client).