Flax Typhoon using legitimate software to quietly access Taiwanese organizations
microsoft.com /en-us/security/blog/2023/08/24/flax-typhoon-using-legitimate-software-to-quietly-access-taiwaneseorganizations
August 24, 2023
By Microsoft Threat Intelligence
Summary
Microsoft has identified a nation-state activity group tracked as Flax Typhoon,
based in China, that is targeting dozens of organizations in Taiwan with the likely
intention of performing espionage. Flax Typhoon gains and maintains long-term
access to Taiwanese organizations’ networks with minimal use of malware, relying
on tools built into the operating system, along with some normally benign software
to quietly remain in these networks. Microsoft has not observed Flax Typhoon using
this access to conduct additional actions. This blog aims to raise awareness of the
techniques used by this threat actor and inform better defenses to protect against
future attacks.
Microsoft has observed a distinctive pattern of malicious activity almost exclusively
affecting organizations in Taiwan using techniques that could be easily reused in other
operations outside the region and would benefit from broader industry visibility. Microsoft
attributes this campaign to Flax Typhoon (overlaps with ETHEREAL PANDA), a nationstate actor based out of China. Flax Typhoon’s observed behavior suggests that the
threat actor intends to perform espionage and maintain access to organizations across a
broad range of industries for as long as possible. However, Microsoft has not observed
Flax Typhoon act on final objectives in this campaign. Microsoft is choosing to highlight
this Flax Typhoon activity at this time because of our significant concern around the
potential for further impact to our customers. Although our visibility into these threats has
given us the ability to deploy detections to our customers, the lack of visibility into other
parts of the actor’s activity compelled us to drive broader community awareness to further
investigations and protections across the security ecosystem.
In this blog post, we share information on Flax Typhoon, the current campaign targeting
Taiwan, and the actor’s tactics for achieving and maintaining unauthorized access to
target networks. Because this activity relies on valid accounts and living-off-the-land
binaries (LOLBins), detecting and mitigating this attack could be challenging.
Compromised accounts must be closed or changed. Compromised systems must be
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/08/24/flax-typhoon-using-legitimate-software-to-quietly-access-taiwanese-organizations/ 1/12
6/25/24, 2:53 PM Flax Typhoon using legitimate software to quietly access Taiwanese organizations | Microsoft Security Blog
isolated and investigated. At the end of this blog post, we share more mitigation steps and
best practices, as well as provide details on how Microsoft 365 Defender detects
malicious and suspicious activity to protect organizations from such stealthy attacks.