Attack Lifecycle
Initial Compromise
2/5
APT40 has been observed leveraging a variety of techniques for initial
compromise, including web server exploitation, phishing campaigns
delivering publicly available and custom backdoors, and strategic web
compromises.
APT40 relies heavily on web shells for an initial foothold into an
organization. Depending on placement, a web shell can provide
continued access to victims' environments, re-infect victim systems,
and facilitate lateral movement.
The operation’s spear-phishing emails typically leverage malicious
attachments, although Google Drive links have also been observed.
Figure 2: APT40 attack lifecycle
Establish Foothold
APT40 uses a variety of malware and tools to establish a foothold, many of
which are either publicly available or used by other threat groups. In some
cases, the group has used executables with code signing certificates to
avoid detection.
First-stage backdoors such as AIRBREAK, FRESHAIR, and BEACON are
used before downloading other payloads.
PHOTO, BADFLICK, and CHINA CHOPPER are among the most
frequently observed backdoors used by APT40.
APT40 will often target VPN and remote desktop credentials to
establish a foothold in a targeted environment. This methodology
proves to be ideal as once these credentials are obtained, they may
3/5
not need to rely as heavily on malware to continue the mission.
Escalate Privileges
APT40 uses a mix of custom and publicly available credential harvesting
tools to escalate privileges and dump password hashes.
APT40 leverages custom credential theft utilities such as HOMEFRY, a
password dumper/cracker used alongside the AIRBREAK and
BADFLICK backdoors.
Additionally, the Windows Sysinternals ProcDump utility and
Windows Credential Editor (WCE) are believed to be used during
intrusions as well.
Internal Reconnaissance
APT40 uses compromised credentials to log on to other connected systems
and conduct reconnaissance. The group also leverages RDP, SSH, legitimate
software within the victim environment, an array of native Windows
capabilities, publicly available tools, as well as custom scripts to facilitate
internal reconnaissance.
APT40 used MURKYSHELL at a compromised victim organization to
port scan IP addresses and conduct network enumeration.
APT40 frequently uses native Windows commands, such as net.exe,
to conduct internal reconnaissance of a victim’s environment.
Web shells are heavily relied on for nearly all stages of the attack
lifecycle. Internal web servers are often not configured with the same
security controls as public-facing counterparts, making them more
vulnerable to exploitation by APT40 and similarly sophisticated
groups.
Lateral Movement
APT40 uses many methods for lateral movement throughout an
environment, including custom scripts, web shells, a variety of tunnelers, as
well as Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). For each new system
compromised, the group usually executes malware, performs additional
reconnaissance, and steals data.
APT40 also uses native Windows utilities such as at.exe (a task
scheduler) and net.exe (a network resources management tool) for
lateral movement.
Publicly available tunneling tools are leveraged alongside distinct
malware unique to the operation.
Although MURKYTOP is primarily a command-line reconnaissance
tool, it can also be used for lateral movement.
APT40 also uses publicly available brute-forcing tools and a custom
utility called DISHCLOTH to attack different protocols and services.
4/5
Maintain Presence
APT40 primarily uses backdoors, including web shells, to maintain presence
within a victim environment. These tools enable continued control of key
systems in the targeted network.
APT40 strongly favors web shells for maintaining presence, especially
publicly available tools.
Tools used during the Establish Foothold phase also continue to be
used in the Maintain Presence phase; this includes AIRBREAK and
PHOTO.
Some APT40 malware tools can evade typical network detectiona by
leveraging legitimate websites, such as GitHub, Google, and Pastebin
for initial C2 communications.
Common TCP ports 80 and 443 are used to blend in with routine
network traffic.
Complete Mission
Completing missions typically involves gathering and transferring
information out of the target network, which may involve moving files
through multiple systems before reaching the destination. APT40 has been
observed consolidating files acquired from victim networks and using the
archival tool rar.exe to compress and encrypt the data before exfiltration.
We have also observed APT40 develop tools such as PAPERPUSH to aid in
the effectiveness of their data targeting and theft.