Document analysis
1/14
The actor used the VBA self-decoding concept in its macro that was first introduced in
2016. A malicious macro is encoded within another that is then decoded and executed
dynamically.
Figure 1: Malicious document
We can consider this technique an unpacker stub, which is executed upon opening the
document. This unpacker stub unpacks the malicious macro and writes it into the
memory of Microsoft Office without being written to disk. This can easily bypass several
security mechanisms.
2/14
Figure 2: Self decoding technique
Figure 3 shows the macro used by this document. This macro starts by calling the
“ ljojijbjs ” function, and based on the results will take different paths for execution.
Figure 3: Encoded macro
Microsoft by default disables the dynamic execution of the macro, and if an attacker needs
to execute one dynamically—which is the case here—the threat actor needs to bypass the
VB object model (VBOM) by modifying its registry value.
To check if it can bypass the VBOM, it looks to see if the VBOM can be accessed or not.
The “ljojijbjs” function is used for this purpose and checks read access to the
VBProject.VBComponent . If it triggers an exception, it means the VBOM needs to be
bypassed (IF clause). If there is no exception, it means the VBOM is already bypassed and
VBA can extract its macro dynamically (Else clause).
3/14
Figure 4: Check VB object model accessibility
“fngjksnhokdnfd” is called with one parameter to bypass VBOM. This function sets the
VBOM registry key to one.
Figure 5: Modifying VBOM registry key
After bypassing VBOM, it calls another function which creates a Mutex in the victims’s
machine by calling CreateMutexA API call and names it “mutexname” . This could be used
by the actor to make sure it infects its victim only once but in this document we didn’t
observe any evidence of checking the mutex.
Figure 6: Mutex creation
Finally, in order to perform the self-decoding process, it needs to open itself by creating a
new Application object and load the current document in it in invisible mode.
Figure 7: Self open
4/14
If VBOM is already bypassed, The function Init is called and generates the malicious
macro content in obfuscated format.
Figure 8: Obfuscated macro
In the next step, this obfuscated macro is passed to “eviwbejfkaksd” to be de-obfuscated
and then executed into memory.
Figure 9: De-obfuscator
To de-obfuscate the macro, two string arrays have been defined:
StringOriginal which contains an array of characters before de-obfuscation
StringEncoded which contains an array of characters after de-obfuscation
5/14
A loop has been defined to de-obfuscate the macro. For each iteration it takes a character
in the obfuscated macro and looks for its index in StringEncoded . When it finds its index,
it looks for its equivalent index in StringOriginal, takes that character from it and adds it
to the new macro. As an example “gm* bf” as encoded macro will be decoded to “Option” .
Figure 10: De-obfuscation loop
Following this process gives us the final macro that will be executed in the memory space
of Microsoft Office. In order to execute this decoded macro, it creates a module and writes
into it before calling its main function to execute the macro.
The main function defines a shellcode in hex format, and a target process which is
Notepad.exe . Then, based on the OS version, it creates a Notepad.exe process and
allocates memory within its address space using VirtualAlloc . It then writes the shellcode
into the allocated memory using WriteProcessMemory . At the end it calls
CreateRemoteThread to execute the shellcode within the address space of Notepad.exe .
6/14
Figure 11: De-obfuscated macro