Other interesting discoveries
Late in 2018 we observed a new version of the FinSpy iOS implant in the wild. This is
part of FinSpy Mobile, a product provided by the surveillance solutions developer,
Gamma Group. FinSpy for iOS implements extensive spyware features that allow
someone to track almost everything on infected devices, including keypresses,
messages and calls. A big limitation is that the current version can only be installed on
jailbroken devices. We believe that Gamma Group does not provide an exploit tool to
jailbreak victims’ phones, but it provides advice and support to customers on how to do
the jailbreaking themselves. Our telemetry shows implant traces in Indonesia and
Mongolia. However, due to the large number of Gamma customers, this is probably only
a fraction of the victims.
Following this research, we discovered a new version for Android also dated circa June

While it is quite similar in terms of functionality, it implements unique capabilities
specific to the platform such as obtaining root privileges by abusing the DirtyCow exploit
(CVE-2016-5195). Just like the iOS version, this implant has features to exfiltrate data
from Instant Messengers including Threema, Signal, Whatsapp and Telegram, as well as
internal device information including, but not limited to, emails and SMS messages.

In February, our AEP (Automatic Exploit Prevention) systems detected an attempt to
exploit a vulnerability in Windows – the fourth consecutive exploited Local Privilege
Escalation vulnerability in Windows that we have recently discovered using our
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q1-2019/90643/ 4/6
5/13/2019 APT trends report Q1 2019 | Securelist
technologies. Further analysis led us to uncover a zero-day vulnerability in “win32k.sys”.
We reported this to Microsoft on 22 February. The company confirmed the vulnerability
and assigned it CVE-2019-0797. Microsoft released a patch on 12 March 2019, crediting
Kaspersky Lab researchers Vasiliy Berdnikov and Boris Larin with the discovery. We
believe that this exploit is being used by several threat actors – including, but possibly
not limited to, FruityArmor and SandCat. FruityArmor is known to have used zero-days
before, while SandCat is a new APT actor that we discovered only recently. The exploit
found in the wild was targeting 64-bit operating systems in the Windows 8 to Windows
10 build 15063 range.
FrutiyArmor and SandCat, interestingly, seem to follow parallel paths, both having the
same exploits available at the same time. This seems to point to a third party providing
both with such artefacts.
Ransomware has become an interesting tool for APT actors, as it can be used to delete
traces, conduct cyber-sabotage, or as a powerful distraction. There is an interesting
wave of ransomware attacks that we have been following, as they seem to be mainly
interested in big targets. LockerGoga recently compromised the systems of Altran, Norsk
Hydro and other companies. It’s unclear who’s behind the attacks, what they want and
the mechanism used to first infect its victims. It’s not even clear if LockerGoga is
ransomware or a wiper. The malware encrypts data and displays a ransom asking
victims to get in touch to arrange decryption, in return for an (unspecified) payment in
bitcoins. However, later versions were observed by researchers that forcibly log victims
off infected systems by changing their passwords and removing their ability to log back
into the system. In such cases, the victims may not even get to see the ransom note.