10. What is the most sophisticated thing about the EQUATION group?
Although the implementation of their malware systems is incredibly complex,
surpassing even Regin in sophistication, there is one aspect of the EQUATION
group’s attack technologies that exceeds anything we have ever seen before.
This is the ability to infect the hard drive firmware.
We were able to recover two HDD firmware reprogramming modules from the
EQUATIONDRUG and GRAYFISH platforms. The EQUATIONDRUG HDD firmware
reprogramming module has version 3.0.1 while the GRAYFISH reprogramming
module has version 4.2.0. These were compiled in 2010 and 2013, respectively,
if we are to trust the PE timestamps.
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
17
The EQUATION group HDD firmware reprogramming plugin has the internal
ID 80AA, which is a unique number in the groups’ plugin ID table. This allows
other plugins to identify and use it as required. Both 32- and 64-bit versions
of the plugin were found.
The plugin supports two main functions: reprogramming the HDD firmware
with a custom payload from the EQUATION group, and providing an API into
a set of hidden sectors (or data storage) of the hard drive. This achieves several
important things:


Extreme persistence that survives disk formatting and OS reinstall.


An invisible, persistent storage hidden inside the hard drive.


The plugin version 3 has the ability to reprogram six drive “categories”:


“ Maxtor ”, “ Maxtor STM ”


“ ST ”, “ Maxtor STM ”, 


“ WDC WD ”, 


“ SAMSUNG ”, 


“ WDC WD ”,  additional vendor specific


checks used (spawns two subclasses)



The plugin version 4 is more complex and can reprogram 12 drive “categories”.
Plugin version 4 infection “capabilities” table
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
18
The classes supported are:

“ WDC WD ”,  additional vendor specific

checks used


“ ST ”, “ Maxtor STM ”, “ SEAGATE ST ”, 


“ SAMSUNG ”, 


“ WDC WD ”,  additional vendor specific


checks used

, “ IC ”, “ IBM ”, “ Hitachi ”, “ HTS ”, “ HTE ”,

“ HDS ”, “ HDT ”, “ ExcelStor ”


“ Max ”, “ Maxtor STM ”


, “ C300 ”, “ M4 ”


, 


“ OCZ ”, “ OWC ”, “ Corsair ”, “ Mushkin ” additional vendor specific checks used


, <Seagate


Technology>,  +additional checks


, “ TOSHIBA M ” +checks


, “ ST ”


The main function to reflash the HDD firmware receives an external payload, which
can be compressed by LZMA. The disk is targeted by a specific serial number and
reprogrammed by a series of ATA commands. For example, in the case of Seagate
drives, we see a chain of commands: “FLUSH CACHE” (E7) → “DOWNLOAD
MICROCODE” (92) → “IDENTIFY DEVICE” (EC) → WRITE “LOG EXT” (3F). Depending
on the reflashing request, there might be some unclear data manipulations written
to the drive using “WRITE LOG EXT” (3F). For WD drives, there is a sub-routine
searching for ARM NOP opcodes in read data, and then used further in following
writes. Overall, the plugin uses a lot of undocumented, vendor-specific ATA
commands, for the drives mentioned above as well as all the others.
The EQUATION group’s HDD firmware reprogramming module is extremely rare.
During our research, we’ve only identified a few victims who were targeted by this
module. This indicates that it is probably only kept for the most valuable victims
or for some very unusual circumstances.
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
19