Bait Documents
The above compression package contains the Kaspersky name bait, and there is also a
similar name "Content marketing kaspersky.doc" in the bait document. After opening the
document, it will be shown as follows, enabling the macro attack method for the
Vietnamese version of the induced click.
In addition, we also found a large number of OceanLotus disguised as a resume attack
fishing activities, we internally named it OceanCV activity, and this activity will directly
OceanLotus commonly used three macro attack means all exposure.
First of all, we analyze the sample names. It can be seen that the sample names all start
with CV and have the characteristics of naming. There are three main types:
1, CV- name (e.g., cv-nguyenquynhchi.docx)


CV- name - position (e.g. CV-AnthonyWei- customerservice. docx)


CV- random number + English (e.g. Cv-103237-ewqdsd.doc)


It is worth noting that some samples will show the identity indicating the need to enable
macro after opening:
https://ti.qianxin.com/blog/articles/oceanlotus-attacks-to-indochinese-peninsula-evolution-of-targets-techniques-and-procedure/ 4/69
5/9/2019 奇安信威胁情报中心
However, when you pull down the progress bar, you will find resumes written in
Vietnamese, which is true for most of the samples in the series of activities, and the
resumes are inconsistent.
And these sample phishing resumes use different methods.Some use the OceanLotus
MSO macro (RedDrip internally named MSOMacro)
Some use template injection techniques:
https://ti.qianxin.com/blog/articles/oceanlotus-attacks-to-indochinese-peninsula-evolution-of-targets-techniques-and-procedure/ 5/69
5/9/2019 奇安信威胁情报中心
Some use the technique of converting macro code to a 1-pound font hidden in a
document (later upgraded to a white 1-pound font, internally named OHNMacro for
RedDrip).
In the following sections we will examine each of these three macro usage analyses in
detail.
According to this batch of resume samples, we conducted homologous sample
correlation for these three macro documents, combined with various dimensions, and
finally found a large number of exclusive malicious macro samples of OceanLotus.
Please refer to the relevant section of Office samples for details.