Miscellaneous
The infostealer contains 52 timers. Some of them do not perform any important tasks. The authors
decided to ping the C&C server and save the results under specific file names. Those files are checked and
parsed in order to find out if the C&C is up and if certain actions can be taken. This is pretty amateurish
programming.
Timer 44: simple ping via pangtipo.bat
Timer 44 is disabled upon execution. Timer 44 checks whether Timer 45 is enabled and returns if it is.
(Timer 44 is enabled prior to returning.) If Timer 45 is disabled, a "pangtipo.bat" file is created, which
contains "ping C&C_IP >C:DOCUME~1%USER%TEMPLA~1iexplore.exe.pkxml".
The bat file is executed, Timer 44 is enabled and Timer 44 returns.
Timer 11: Simple ping from pangtip.bat
Timer 11 is disabled upon execution.If Timer 16 is already enabled, Timer 11 re-enables itself and returns.
If Timer 17 is already enabled, Timer 11 re-enables itself and returns.
If none of the timers are enabled, it creates the "pangtip.bat" file, which contains "ping C&C_IP

C:DOCUME~1%USER%TEMPLA~1iexplore.exe.pkxm" and executes it via ShellExecute.

Timer 16 is enabled and returns.
Note: Timers 1, 7, 11, 15, 44 and 48 generate these batch files under different names and the results are
saved under different names too.
Timer 7: Was "timeip.php" visited?
Timer 7 is disabled upon execution. Timer 7 checks whether the timeip.php page was visited. If not, it
visits the page using IE instrumentation, Timer 7 disables itself and enables Timer 8 (see description
below).
It creates the "pangip.bat" file, which contain "ping C&C_IP". Results are saved as "iexplore.exe.pkam".
Note: the file name used to save the output of the ping commands is based on the infostealer executable
name, which is "iexplore.exe". If the executable is renamed, the log files will have different names.
Timer 8: Parse the results of the timeip.php visit
The timeip.php script returns the current time and the IP address of the victim. The results of the visit
(done with IE instrumentation in Timer 7) are saved into a buffer which is used during the keylogger log
creation (see Timer 4 description).
Timer 22: Ensure there is a backup copy of UpdateOffice (downloader)
Note: The downloader is the only malware that starts after Windows boots. It's therefore important to
ensure various backup copies are made.
Timer 22 checks if "UpdateOffice.exe" is present in the infostealer directory (templates). It shouldn't be, as
it is only present in the printhood directory. (See Downloader description at the beginning of the article.)
Since it is not present, it calls a subroutine to get the path to the "Printhood" directory
(GetSpecialFolderLocation with CSIDL_PRINTHOOD parameter). While concatenating the
"UpdateOffice.exe" and the "Printhood" folder, the "" character is missing, and therefore, the routine is
bugged. The returned string is: "C:Documents and Settings%USER%PrintHoodUpdateOffice.exe" instead
of "C:Documents and Settings%USER%PrintHoodUpdateOffice.exe".
It then copies (or at least tries to, as the path is wrong) "C:Documents and
Settings%USER%PrintHoodUpdateOffice.exe" as "srAntiq.dll" in the Templates folder.
If "OfficeUpdate.exe" isn't present in the "printhood", a copy is made from "srAntiq.dll".
It retrieves the path to the Startup Folder using the CSIDL_STARTUP: "C:Documents and
Settings%USER%Start MenuProgramsStartup".
Timer 22 checks whether "OfficeUpdate.exe" is present in that folder; if not, it will make a copy of
srAntiq.dll to the Startup folder and returns from Timer 22.
Timer 25: Check for "fsdiskget.dll"
Timer 25 checks if "fsdiskget.dll" is present in the malware directory; if not, it returns.
If the file is present, it enables Timer 23 (see the Data Stealing section for a description).
Timer 42: lbdiskgo.dll, soltanik.dll and res.exe checking
Timer 42 checks whether a flag (set by Timer 34 and cleared by Timer 33) is set to 0 and if lbdiskgo.dll,
soltanik.exe and res.exe are present. If they are, it enables Timer 33; otherwise, it returns.
Timer 43: lbdiskgo.dll / ladine.dll / res.exe checking
Timer 43 returns directly if neither "lbdiskgo.dll" or "ladine.dll" are present. If res.exe is present, it
enables Timer 44 and Timer 48; otherwise, it returns.
Timer 45: Visit the ReReReRe.htm page
Timer 45 deletes pangtipo.bat, reads iexplore.pkxml to make sure the C&C replied. (Timer 1 and Timer 16
provides some more details on the use of such .bat files.)
Uses FindWindow to check whether IE Instrumentation has been used to visit the special ReReReRe.html
page, which contains the following title: "r!r!r!r!".
It looks for different variants such as "r!r!r!r! - Windows Internet Explorer" or "r!r!r!r! - Microsoft
Internet Explorer".
If one of them is found, it means the page was visited using IE instrumentation. It disables Timer 45 and
returns.
If none of them are found, Timer 45 will visit the URL http://C&CIP/ASLK//asgari/mah/ReReReRe.htm,
enable Timer 46 (see below), disable Timer 45 and return.
Timer 46: Parse "ReReReRe.htm" (downloaded by Timer 45)
Timer 46 goes through all the different running instances of instrumented IE, looking at the title of each
HTM page. The main interest here is "r!r!r!r!".
This page is the ReReReRe.htm file downloaded by Timer 45. Timer 46 looks for a special EOF (End Of
File) marker: "tamamshodfile". This marker is used by the infostealer to make sure the htm page was fully
downloaded.
Once the page has been confirmed as valid, it looks for the textarea id S1 which holds double Base64
encoded PE Files.
The Base64 encoded data is saved as: ASLASLKK223.dll.
Timer 47: Double decoding of Base64 encoded payload from ReReReRe.htm
Note: Timer 46 saves the payload as ASLASLKK223.dll.
Since the payload file is double encoded, the decoding is performed in two steps:
ASLASLKK223.dll is decoded to ASLASLKK224.dll to get a single encoded Base64 file.
ASLASLKK224.dll is decoded to "res.exe" : Final PE file.
Res.exe is a copy of the Resource Hacker utility. ASLASLKK224.dll is deleted. The use of Res.exe is
described in the analysis of Timer 39 below.
Once Timer 47 has finished enumerating all the IE instances, it will call a cleaning routine. It searches for
" - r!r!r!r! - Windows Internet Explorer" and different variants described in Timer 45 and sends a
"WM_Close" Message to IE Windows in order to close them.
Among all those captions, it also searches for " - 404 - File or directory not found." and variants of 404
pages.
Once the cleaning is completed, Timer 47 disables itself and returns.
Timer 49: Visit the SeSeSeSe.htm page
Timer 49 is almost identical to Timer 45. The only difference is the page visited: SeSeSeSe.htm instead of
ReReReRe.htm
See the Timer 45 description for details.
Timer 50: Parse "SeSeSeSe.htm" (downloaded by Timer 49)
Timer 50 is almost identical to Timer 46. The only difference is the page parsed: SeSeSeSe.htm instead of
ReReReRe.htm and local file names. The double encoded payload is saved as "ASLASLKK2231.dll".
See the Timer 46 description for details.
Timer 51: Double decoding of Base64 encoded payload from SeSeSeSe.htm
Note: Timer 50 saves the payload as ASLASLKK2231.dll.
Since the payload file is double encoded, the decoding is performed in two steps:
ASLASLKK2231.dll is decoded to ASLASLKK2241.dll to get a single encoded Base64 file.
ASLASLKK2241.dll is decoded to "Ladine.dll": final PE file.
Note: At the time of writing, the SeSeSeSe.htm page had been removed from the C&C server.
A C&C server used by older variants of the infostealer is still available and the old page name was
"SSSS.htm". The embedded file is a template of a downloader executable (see Timers 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39
for further information).
Once Timer 51 has finished enumerating all the IE instances, it will call a cleaning routine. It searches for "

s!s!s!s! - Windows Internet Explorer" and different variants described in Timer 45, and sends a

"WM_Close" Message to IE Windows in order to close them.
Among all those captions, it also searches for " - 404 - File or directory not found." and variants of 404
pages.
Once the cleaning is completed, Timer 51 disables itself and returns.