Final thoughts
While the TTPs of some threat actors remain consistent over time, relying heavily on
social engineering as a means of gaining a foothold in a target organisation or
compromising an individual’s device, others refresh their toolsets and extend the scope of
their activities. Our regular quarterly reviews are intended to highlight the key
developments of APT groups.
Here are the main trends that we’ve seen in Q2 2021:
We have reported several supply-chain attacks in recent months.. While some were
major and have attracted worldwide attention, we observed equally successful lowtech attacks, such as BountyGlad, CoughingDown and the attack targeting Codecov.
APT groups mainly use social engineering to gain an initial foothold in a target
network. However, we’ve seen a rise in APT threat actors leveraging exploits to gain
that initial foothold – including the zero-days developed by the exploit developer we
call “Moses” and those used in the PuzzleMaker, Pulse Secure attacks and the
Exchange server vulnerabilities.
APT threat actors typically refresh and update their toolsets: this includes not only
the inclusion of new platforms but also the use of additional languages as seen by
WildPressure’s macOS-supported Python malware.
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 11/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
As illustrated by the campaigns of various threat actors – including BountyGlad,
HotCousin, GoldenJackal, Scarcruft, Palwan, Pulse Secure and the threat actor
behind the WebDav-O/Mail-O implants – geo-politics continues to drive APT
developments.
As always, we would note that our reports are the product of our visibility into the threat
landscape. However, it should be borne in mind that, while we strive to continually
improve, there is always the possibility that other sophisticated attacks may fly under our
radar.
APT trends report Q2 2021
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 12/12