Revisiting the current state of the art in persistent attacks
In the last year, there have been several public accounts on the ongoing trend of UEFI threats. Notable
examples include the UEFI bootkit used as part of the FinSpy surveillance toolset that we reported on,
the work of our colleagues from ESET on the ESPectre bootkit, and a little-known threat activity that was
discovered within government organisations in the Middle East, using a UEFI bootkit of its own (briefly
mentioned in our APT trends report Q3 2021 and covered in more detail in a private APT report
delivered to customers of our Threat Intelligence Portal).
The common denominator of those three cases is the fact that the UEFI components targeted for
infection reside on the ESP (EFI System Partition), a storage space designated for some UEFI
components, typically based in the computer’s hard drive or SSD. The most notable elements of the ESP
are the Boot Manager and OS loader, both invoked during the machine’s boot sequence and which also
happen to be the subject of tampering in the case of the aforementioned bootkits.
While all of the above were seen in use by advanced actors, a different class of bootkits raises even higher
concern. This one is made up of implants found in the UEFI firmware within the SPI flash, a non-volatile
storage external to the hard drive. Such bootkits are not only stealthier (partially because of limited
visibility by security products into this hardware component), but also more difficult to mitigate: flashing
a clean firmware image in place of a malicious one can prove to be more difficult than formatting a hard
drive and reinstalling an OS, which would typically eliminate ESP level threats.
MoonBounce is notable for being the third publicly revealed case of an implant from the latter class of
firmware-based rootkits. Previous cases included LoJax and MosaicRegressor, which we reported on
during October 2020. In that sense, MoonBounce marks a particular evolution in this group of threats by
presenting a more complicated attack flow in comparison to its predecessors and a higher level of
technical competence by its authors, who demonstrate a thorough understanding of the finer details
involved in the UEFI boot process.