INTRODUCTION
Trend Micro researchers discovered an ongoing malware
campaign that targets Israeli victims and leverages
network infrastructure in Germany. The campaign has
strong attribution ties to Arab parties located in the Gaza
Strip and elsewhere.
Picture the following reconstruction based on one
attack—an employee in an Israeli government research
facility receives and opens a highly targeted phishing
email. A pornographic movie starts to play on his screen,
which he hurriedly closes before any of his colleagues
notice. He then thinks nothing more of the event.
Minutes later, an attacker from somewhere in the Gaza
Strip in Palestine gets notified that a new victim’s system
has been successfully infected. The attacker then
proceeds to exfiltrate a package containing all of the
interesting documents from the newly infected system.
Israel is one of the most highly defended countries in
the world, sheltered behind the legendary “Iron Dome.”
[1] But all of that counts for nothing when an attacker—
possibly seeking out revenge for Israeli air strikes on
Gaza last year—circumvents all of that to strike right at
the heart of the Israeli administration. [2]
The Internet is quickly becoming a battlefield for new
age wars, a chessboard where a new game is played by
world powers comprising enemies and allies. This is a
new take on an old game, that of deception, duplicity, and
espionage in world politics. The ability to attack an enemy
without needing to declare war is a very useful thing in
such a game, as is being able to spy on enemies cloaked
by distance and faint electronic traces.
For a security company, the most complicated thing is to
determine the motivation behind an electronic attack. In
rare cases, we do find state-sponsored espionage. And
the most useful clues we count on to discern between
threat actors or those behind highly targeted attacks and
other cybercriminals include:
• Complexity: The level of sophistication employed
by some of these highly targeted attacks goes
over and beyond normal cybercrime. Government
agencies with the manpower to create the kind of
malware for highly targeted attacks perfect their
code over the years. They often employ scores
of teams working on different sections of their
malicious programs.
Of course, not all nation states have the same
resources at their disposal when it comes to
creating sophisticated malware. In fact, for
every Stuxnet, there are hundreds of rather
straightforward spear-phishing campaigns.
• Targets: Over time, state-sponsored malware
have been targeting victims that can be clustered
into specific groups—regions or vertical industries.
This could be a telltale sign that whoever is behind
a highly targeted attack has loftier interests than
merely stealing money.
It is also worth noting that not all politically motivated
attacks are carried out by the governments that would
most likely benefit from them. They can be the work
of hacktivists, patriotic hacking groups, or to further
complicate things, enemy nations using the name of
supposed culprits to carry out attacks. Welcome to the
wonderfully complex world of geopolitical malware!
This research paper tells the story of a highly targeted
attack campaign that raised all kinds of red flags. What
we have dubbed “Operation Arid Viper” refers to a
campaign that exclusively targets victims in Israel. This
particular case showed that not only countries are looking
at Israel through the crosshairs; a few organizations who
consider themselves the country’s adversaries are, too.
As such, we cannot discount that this attack could have
been made by a rogue organization that is trying to shake
the chessboard of world politics.
Operation Arid Viper uses malware delivered via phishing
emails to steal documents from target systems. This
paper—a collaborative effort of the Trend Micro ForwardLooking Threat Research Team and fellow threat defense
experts—reveals the campaign’s technical details and its
targets as well as details on a number of individuals who
appear to be tied to the campaign. Special thanks also
goes out to the United States Air Force (USAF) Office of
Special Investigations for their assistance and partnership
in this endeavor.
2 © 2015 Trend Micro Incorporated
Operation Arid Viper Research Paper