Outlook and Implications
Cyber espionage activity with origins in Iran is not unprecedented. The Mahdi campaign, which largely
focused on targets in Iran, the Gulf States and Israel, was attributed by iSIGHT Partners to an Iranian
actor in 2012. Since then, iSIGHT Partners has tracked additional activity that appears to target Iran's
dissident population and the US defense industrial base, such as activity attributed to members of the
Ajax Security Team. International pressure and strategic uncertainty have almost certainly created an
exigent need for intelligence in the country, which has been recently publicly implicated in several
offensive cyber actions.
Given the covert nature of cyber espionage, its impacts are often difficult to forecast or measure;
however, in this instance, we expect any accesses obtained by the NEWSCASTER network will be
ultimately exploited for intelligence value. We infer, from our limited knowledge of NEWSCASTER
targeting, that such intelligence could ultimately support the development of weapon systems, provide
insight into the disposition of the US military or the US alliance with Israel, or impart an advantage in
negotiations between Iran and the US, especially with regards to sanctions and proliferation issues. It is
also possible that the compromise of such high-ranking and influential people could be used to access
the senior levels of as-of-yet unidentified organizations in the US, Israel, and elsewhere. Furthermore,
we surmise that access could be leveraged as reconnaissance-for-attack, supporting eventual disruptive
or destructive attacks against targeted entities. Though there is no evidence indicating the NEWSCASTER
network was created to support such activity, previous incidents publicly attributed to Iran, such as
Operation Ababil and the attacks on Saudi Aramco underscore this possibility.
Methods used in this campaign are not novel, but they are brazen, especially when compared with
short-term considerably less resource intensive efforts used by other cyber espionage actors. The
personal nature of this campaign sets it apart from others and raises concerns that threats to
organizations and personnel are not limited to enterprise systems or the office—social networking sites,
personal accounts and even family members can be a vector for compromise by an adversary who
compensates for sophistication with audacious, long-term actions.
© 2014 All rights reserved. iSIGHT Partners ®, Inc. 11