2003
At the 2003 10th National People’s Congress,
PLA representatives revealed that it would activate
the first high-tech information warfare units in
Beijing that year. The report stated that the units
would eventually be in all PLA armies. Informa­
tion warfare units would be outfitted with high-tech
equipment, and have the ability to conduct network
warfare on the Internet and the capability to transfer
data via remote sensing satellites. [20] How the “first”
information warfare unit differs from the informa­
tion warfare brigades under discussion in the 1999
Chinese book Information War is unknown.
General Dai, writing in 2003, stressed once again
the importance of carrying out information attacks. [21]
Dai wrote that information warfare is “precursory”
(begins before other operations) and “whole course”
(runs throughout an entire operation). Perhaps the
current emphases on gaining the initiative and on
short wars are the main reasons that Dai gives the
impression that preemption via information warfare
is a necessity in future war. [22] He notes:
Actions such as intelligence warfare,
psychological warfare, and campaign
deception in advance of combat seem to
be even more important to the unimpeded
implementation of planning and ensuring
war. For this reason, information warfare
must be started in advance of other combat
actions before making war plans and while
making war plans. [23]
Specific reserve units also engage in information
warfare activities. For example, in late 2003 the
monthly journal of the PLA Academy of Military
Science, Guofang, gave specific instructions on
network attack activities to reserve units. Author
Li Mingrang says that information storm troopers
as “first forces” must be established from the talent
of local communications, telecommunications, and
financial departments and from scientific research
institutes and institutions of higher education.
Stratagems must be developed to increase system
survivability. [24] Li adds:
There is no shortage of computer experts
and network jockeys among them, any one
of whom could become a network guerrilla
who could open up a gunpowderless battle­
field all by himself by harassing attacks
on the network, namely by releasing large
volumes of data from many directions con­
centrated on some enemy network station
to jam up its network router and bring the
network station to a standstill…and once
there is a military requirement, either enter
the network system to steal intelligence or
to activate viruses or detonate ‘bombs’ to
achieve the combat target of destroying the
network. [25]
Reserve forces are directed to work on offensive
strategies.
In his 2003 book Deciphering Information Secu­
rity, China’s “father of information warfare,” retired
Colonel Shen Weiguang, wrote about the develop­
ment of an information security university with a
military information security specialty. The specialty
50 November-December 2008  Military Review
teaches, among some twenty-plus topics, “A Study
of Hacker Attack Methods,” “Network Intrusion
Detection and Defending against Attack,” “Infor­
mation Attack and Defense Tactics,” “Computer
Virus Program Design and Application,” “Network
Security System Structures,” and “Scanning for
Hidden Troubles in Networks.” [26] Many of these
topics would fit the definition of PLA’s peacetime
computer network operations incursion activities.