1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Sednit also known as APT28, Sofacy, Strontium and Fancy Bear – has been operating since at least 2004,
and has made headlines frequently in the past years: it is believed to be behind major, high profile attacks.
For instance, several security companies [1] as well as the US Department of Justice [2] named the group
as being responsible for the Democratic National Committee (DNC) hack just before the US 2016 elections.
The group is also presumed to be behind the hacking of global television network TV5Monde [3], the World
Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) email leak [4] and many others. Its targets are many and the group
has a diversified set of malware in its toolbox several of which we have documented previously [5],
but this white paper details the first time this group is known to have used a UEFI rootkit.
Key points in this white paper:
   - Starting in at least early 2017, trojanized versions of an older userland agent of the popular

LoJack anti-theft software from Absolute Software were found in the wild. We call this trojanized
LoJack agent LoJax. LoJack attracted a lot of attention in recent years as it implements a UEFI/BIOS
module as a persistence mechanism.
   - The presence of known Sednit tools alongside LoJax samples as well as the fact that some of the

C&C servers used by these trojanized agents were part of an earlier Sednit network infrastructure
allows us to link this UEFI rootkit to the Sednit group with high confidence.
   - Along with the LoJax agents, tools with the ability to read systems’ UEFI firmware were found

and in one case, this tool was able to dump, patch and overwrite part of the system’s SPI flash
memory. This tool’s ultimate goal was to install a malicious UEFI module on a system whose
SPI flash memory protections were vulnerable or misconfigured.
   - This UEFI module has the responsibility to drop the LoJax agent on the system, making it the first

Sednit UEFI rootkit identified. As it resides in the system’s firmware, it can survive a Windows
re-install as well as a hard drive replacement.
   - There was at least one case where this rootkit was successfully installed in a system’s SPI flash

memory. To our knowledge, this is the first UEFI rootkit found in the wild.
For any inquiries related to this white paper, contact us at threatintel@eset.com
4 LoJax // First UEFI rootkit found in the wild, courtesy of the Sednit group