Second Stage - Reaffirming F-SECURE’s attribution of the attacks to Lazarus
After showing that all four research papers point to the same attack campaign, we attempted to reaffirm
the hypothesis in F-SECURE’s paper attributing the campaign to LAZARUS.
We did this by applying YARA rules for the RAT identified in F-SECURE’s report to a different RAT named
“NukeSpeed” found in ESET’s report and verified as belonging to LAZARUS (SHA256
8b6887c5ec6fadaefee78f089e9a347a539bcedf52f5827f866a49a1839f8c4b):
|Name of F-SECURE YARA rule|Signs RAT from ESET?|
|---|---|
|lazarus_rc4_loop|Yes|
|lazarus_network_backdoor_unpacked|Yes|
Strings signed by YARA rule lazarus_network_backdoor_unpacked:
Strings signed by YARA rule lazarus_rc4_loop:

C) 2021 All rights reserved to ClearSky Ltd. info@ClearSkysec.com www.ClearSkysec.com
TLP: White Page |
15
As we can see, the RC4 algorithm unique to LAZARUS and the backdoor for the RAT from F-SECURE’s
research were both found in the RAT from ESET’s research.
It is worth noting that in Fsecure’s report they reference a RAT from an older LAZARUS report from 2016,
conducted by KASPERSKY (bbd703f0d6b1cad4ff8f3d2ee3cc073c). Attempting to apply F-SECURE’s
backdoor YARA rule to the findings from this report will not work, but only because the 2016 backdoor
accesses a file named “scaeve.dat” while in newer versions that has been changed to “perflog.dat”.
Changing the file’s name would cause the YARA rule to apply to the 2016 research as well.
Kaspersky
We can see that our test for applying YARA rules from F-SECURE’s research to ESET’s and KASPERSKY’s
research worked, and highly strengthens the attribution of these attacks to LAZARUS.
During our research, we located several indicative and uncommon traits for LAZARUS tools that were
part of the attack campaign:
Similar traits for RAT:


RAT is named ntuser.cat.


Usage of the packers themida and VMProtect.

Injection of malware to process explorer.exe, and potentially to other processes.

RAT accesses file “msomain.sdb” and decrypts it. This file contains information of C&C servers.


Base64 encoding in RAT’s code.

Unique code in RAT and STEALER for RC4 encryption. This code has only ever been found in

LAZARUS tools.

Uniform malware command-parsing table, indicating the same RAT was used for several targets.
Unique wrapper function for decrypting RC4 and Base64.

Similar traits for STEALER:

Usage of the packers themida and VMProtect.
Injection of malware to process lsass.exe, probably done to dump user passwords and steal

data.

STEALER accesses file “msomain.sdb” and decrypts it. This file contains information of C&C

servers.

Unique code in RAT and STEALER for RC4 encryption. This code has only ever been found in

LAZARUS tools.

Unique wrapper function for decrypting RC4 and Base64 (different than the one in the RAT).


C) 2021 All rights reserved to ClearSky Ltd. info@ClearSkysec.com www.ClearSkysec.com
TLP: White Page |
16
In some samples, it was impossible to detect which packer was used with traditional tools such as
ExeInfoPE. However, it was possible to detect the VMProtect packer by viewing the sections within the
samples, as VMProtect creates two custom sections postfixed with ‘0’ and ‘1’.
CONCLUSION
By being able to sign F-SECURE’s YARA rules to RATs associated with LAZARUS from ESET and
KASPERSKY’s we have greatly strengthened F-SECURE’s attribution of the CryptoCore attack campaign to
LAZARUS.
In addition, we have located several indicative and uncommon traits in these tools all associated with
LAZARUS.
The above information means we can, with a high level of probability, attribute the CryptoCore attack
campaign to LAZARUS.

C) 2021 All rights reserved to ClearSky Ltd. info@ClearSkysec.com www.ClearSkysec.com
TLP: White Page |
17