2.9 HBOOT patch analysis
The analysis required a good understanding of what HBOOT did and how. We began by observing that like
BROM, HBOOT implemented a console with an impressive set of commands. Finding out how these commands
were added allowed us to spot every implemented command, and rename the corresponding handler functions.
This provided at least some insight into what parts were patched.
Figure 18. List of console commands supported by HBOOT.
Starting with the first modification of two PowerPC instructions in the middle of the HBOOT code section, we
saw the boot command implementation was modified to include a call to the other added code fragment. The
call was patched in to be performed after the application image was loaded into memory and authenticated.
Analysis of the inserted code revealed this to be the first stage of a de-obfuscator (XOR-based with the key
derived from the unit serial number), processing the "random" data previously discovered at the end of Flash.
This data is de-obfuscated into a stack-based buffer, and control was then passed there. Care was taken to verify
the operation was performed correctly, so the unit did not crash even when there was no obfuscated data
present.
That code was found to be a stage 2 de-obfuscator, with the key based on certain data from the Flash IC not
accessible directly through conventional tools we had. Due to these circumstances, the key had to be brute
forced. Similarly, the de-obfuscated code of stage 3 was again placed into a stack-based buffer and executed.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 22
PUBLIC
Stage 3 was found to be the actual patching code, searching for the serialNu string and applying some
modifications to the IOS image expected to be already loaded in memory. The modifications were few and
consisted of mainly "return OK" kind of patches; full details of functions being patched will not be published for
obvious reasons. However, it appeared the only purpose of this "added functionality" was to circumvent
software licensing protections.
It was due to this added patching functionality that the counterfeit units could bypass platform authenticity
verification. This also explained why units stopped working after a software update: the latest software will
almost certainly rewrite the patched HBOOT code, removing the work done to bypass the checks. The case of
the Counterfeit B unit confirmed this hypothesis.
When the CISO of the victim company provided us the counterfeit devices for investigation one of the main
tasks was to answer whether there were any backdoor-like functionalities being introduced. We concluded this
did not appear to be the case for application and HBOOT code.
F-Secure.com | © F-Secure LABS 23
PUBLIC