Insights from one year of tracking a polymorphic threat
microsoft.com /security/blog/2019/11/26/insights-from-one-year-of-tracking-a-polymorphic-threat
November 26, 2019
A little over a year ago, in October 2018, our polymorphic outbreak monitoring system detected a
large surge in reports, indicating that a large-scale campaign was unfolding. We observed as the
new threat attempted to deploy files that changed every 20-30 minutes on thousands of devices.
We gave the threat the name “Dexphot,” based on certain characteristics of the malware code.
The Dexphot attack used a variety of sophisticated methods to evade security solutions. Layers of
obfuscation, encryption, and the use of randomized file names hid the installation process.
Dexphot then used fileless techniques to run malicious code directly in memory, leaving only a
few traces that can be used for forensics. It hijacked legitimate system processes to disguise
malicious activity. If not stopped, Dexphot ultimately ran a cryptocurrency miner on the device,
with monitoring services and scheduled tasks triggering re-infection when defenders attempt to
remove the malware.
In the months that followed, we closely tracked the threat and witnessed the attackers upgrade
the malware, target new processes, and work around defensive measures:
While Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection’s pre-execution detection engines blocked
Dexphot in most cases, behavior-based machine learning models provided protection for cases
where the threat slipped through. Given the threat’s persistence mechanisms, polymorphism, and
use of fileless techniques, behavior-based detection was a critical component of the
comprehensive protection against this malware and other threats that exhibit similar malicious
behaviors.
Microsoft Defender ATP data shows the effectiveness of behavioral blocking and containment
capabilities in stopping the Dexphot campaign. Over time, Dexphot-related malicious behavior
reports dropped to a low hum, as the threat lost steam.
https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2019/11/26/insights-from-one-year-of-tracking-a-polymorphic-threat/ 1/10
11/27/2019 Insights from one year of tracking a polymorphic threat - Microsoft Security
Our close monitoring of Dexphot helped us ensure that our customers were protected from the
evolving threat. More importantly, one year’s worth of intelligence helped us gain insight not only
into the goals and motivations of Dexphot’s authors, but of cybercriminals in general.