Initial infection
In this attack, spear phishing was used as the initial infection vector. Before
launching the attack, the group studied publicly available information about the
targeted organization and identified email addresses belonging to various
departments of the company.
Email addresses in those departments received phishing emails that either had a
malicious Word document attached or a link to one hosted on a remote server.
The phishing emails claimed to have urgent updates on today’s hottest topic –
COVID-19 infections. The phishing emails were carefully crafted and written on
behalf of a medical center that is part of the organization under attack.
Phishing email with links to malicious documents
The attackers registered accounts with a public email service, making sure the
sender’s email addresses looked similar to the medical center’s real email
address. The signature shown in the phishing emails included the actual personal
data of the deputy head doctor of the attacked organization’s medical center.
The attackers were able to find this information on the medical center’s public
website.
A macro in the Microsoft Word document contained the malicious code
designed to download and execute additional malicious software on the infected
system.
The document contains information on the population health assessment
program and is not directly related to the subject of the phishing email (COVID19), suggesting the attackers may not completely understand the meaning of the
contents they used.
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
3
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
Contents of malicious document
The content of the lure document was copied from an online post by a health
clinic.
Our investigation showed that the initial spear-phishing attempt was
unsuccessful due to macros being disabled in the Microsoft Office installation of
the targeted systems. In order to persuade the target to allow the malicious
macro, the attacker sent another email showing how to enable macros in
Microsoft Office.
Email with instructions on enabling macros #1
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
4
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
After sending the above email with explanations, the attackers realized that the
target was using a different version of Microsoft Office and therefore required
a different procedure for enabling macros. The attackers subsequently sent
another email showing the correct procedure in a screenshot with a Russian
language pack.
Email with instructions on enabling macros #2
The content in the spear-phishing emails sent by the attackers from May 21 to
May 26, 2020, did not contain any grammatical mistakes. However, in subsequent
emails the attackers made numerous errors, suggesting they may not be native
Russian speakers and were using translation tools.
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
5
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
Email containing several grammatical mistakes
On June 3, 2020, one of the malicious attachments was opened by employees
and at 9:30 am local time the attackers gained remote control of the infected
system.
This group also utilized different types of spear-phishing attack. One of the
compromised hosts received several spear-phishing documents on May 19, 2020.
The malicious file that was delivered, named Boeing_AERO_GS.docx, fetches a
template from a remote server.
However, no payload created by this malicious document could be discovered.
We speculate that the infection from this malicious document failed for a
reason unknown to us. A few days later, the same host opened a different
malicious document. The threat actor wiped these files from disk after the initial
infection meaning they could not be obtained.
Nonetheless a related malicious document with this malware was retrieved
based on our telemetry. It creates a payload and shortcut file and then
continues executing the payload by using the following command line
parameters.


Payload path: %APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\lconcaches.db


Shortcut path: %APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start
```
   Menu\Programs\Startup\OneDrives.lnk


```
Command Line; please note that the string at the end is hard-coded, but
different for each sample:
```
    o rundll32.exe [dllpath],Dispatch n2UmQ9McxUds2b29
```
The content of the decoy document depicts the job description of a
generator/power industry engineer.
LAZARUS TARGETS DEFENSE INDUSTRY
WITH THREATNEEDLE
6
© 2021 AO KASPERSKY LAB
Decoy document