Conduct of the investigation
From June 2008 to March 2009 the Information Warfare Monitor conducted an in-depth investigation
of alleged cyber espionage against the Tibetan community. We chose this case study because of the
unprecedented access that we were granted to Tibetan institutions through one of our researchers, and
persistent allegations that confidential information on secure computers was somehow being compromised.
Our lead field investigator had a long history of working with the Tibetan community, and was able
to work with the private office of the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan Government-in-Exile, and a number of
Tibetan non-governmental organizations.
The investigation consisted of two distinct phases.
Phase 1: Field-based investigations in India, Europe, and North America (June-November 2008)
Field research was carried out in Dharamsala, India, the location of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile.
Follow-up research was conducted at Tibetan missions abroad in London, Brussels and New York. During
this phase we had unprecedented access to the Tibetan government and other Tibetan organizations.
This allowed us to establish a baseline understanding of information security practices at these
locations and to design an evidence-based approach to the investigation.
We also conducted extensive on-site interviews with officials in the Tibetan Government-in-Exile, the
private office of the Dalai Lama, and Tibetan non-governmental organizations. The interviews focused on
the allegations of cyber espionage. We also sought alternative explanations for leakage of confidential
documents and information and examined basic information security practices at these locations.
Network monitoring software was installed on various computers so as to collect forensic technical
data from affected computer systems, and initial results were analysed in situ . [32] This initial analysis
confirmed the existence of malware and the transfer of information between infected computers and
a number of control servers. [33]
Phase 2: Computer-based scouting, target selection, and data analysis (December 2008-March 2009)
During the second phase of the investigation, researchers based at the Citizen Lab analysed the data
collected by the field team.
The data collected in Dharamsala and at Tibetan missions abroad led to the discovery of four control
servers and six command servers. These control servers were identified and geo-located from the captured
32 A portion of the fieldwork was carried out in conjunction with Dr. Shishir Nagaraja who spent five days in Dharamsala at the request
of IWM researchers and assisted in conducting technical tests.
33 A packet capturing program, Wireshark, was installed at each test location. All traffic from each of the affected systems was
captured in real-time, and recorded for further analysis. Compromised systems try to connect to control servers in order check-in and
report an infection. Once a connection is made, infected computers may receive instructions or additional locations from where they
are to download instructions. The Wireshark data is sufficient to analyse these connections, determine the behaviour of the attack
vector, and identify the location of control servers.
JR02-2009 Tracking GhostNet - PART ONE 15
traffic using a simple IP lookup. [34] The control servers were then probed and web-based control interfaces
were identified on four control servers, which allowed us to view and control the network. The system was
actively monitored for two weeks, which allowed us to derive an extensive list of infected systems, and to
also monitor the systems operator(s) as the operator(s) specifically instructed target computers.
The data collected during both phases was integrated in Palantir, a data visualization and analysis
tool. The Palantir platform provides a data fusion and visualization environment that enhances
analytical capabilities.
34 We looked up the associated Internet Protocol (IP) address in all five Regional Internet Registries in order to identify the country
and network to which the IP address is assigned. We then performed a reverse Domain Name System (DNS) look-up on each IP
address. DNS is the system that translates domain names into IP addresses; reverse DNS is a system that translates an IP address
into a domain name. This can potentially provide additional information about the entity that has been assigned a particular IP
address. If we discovered a domain name, we then looked up its registration in WHOIS, which is a public database of all domain
name registrations and provides information about who registered the domain name.