Introduction
FM 3-12 provides Army doctrine on using cyberspace electromagnetic activities to integrate and synchronize
cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare into operations while managing assigned portions of the
electromagnetic spectrum in support of unified land operations. FM 3-12 defines and provides an
understanding of Army cyberspace operations, electromagnetic warfare, statutory and title authorities, roles,
relationships, responsibilities, and capabilities to support Army and joint operations. It expands upon the
methods by which Army forces conduct offensive and defensive cyberspace operations and addresses how
commanders and staff integrate tailored cyberspace and electromagnetic warfare capabilities across the range
of military operations.
FM 3-12 nests with and supports joint cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare doctrine and ADP
3-0, Operations, and provides the doctrinal context to address the relationship among the Army’s operations
process and cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare. To understand the fundamentals of
integrating and synchronizing cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare, readers should be familiar
with ADP 2-0, ADP 3-0, ADP 3-19, ADP 3-37, ADP 3-90, ADP 5-0, ADP 6-0, FM 3-09, FM 3-13,
FM 3-55, FM 6-0, ATP 2-01.3, JP 3-12, and JP 3-85.
FM 3-12 describes how personnel conducting cyberspace electromagnetic activities integrate and
synchronize cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare functions and capabilities across warfighting
functions, defend the network, and provide commanders critical capabilities at all levels during unified land
operations.
FM 3-12 contains four chapters and seven appendixes:
Chapter 1 outlines how cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare support the Army forces during
the conduct of unified land operations. It provides an overview of the aspects of an operational environment
in which units perform cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare. This chapter also details how
cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare support the Army warfighting functions.
Chapter 2 details the types of cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare and their associated tasks
and common effects. It also discusses the interrelationship between cyberspace operations and
electromagnetic warfare with other types of Army operations.
Chapter 3 provides an overview of the joint and Army organizations that conduct cyberspace operations and
electromagnetic warfare. It also describes the cyberspace electromagnetic activities section roles and
responsibilities at echelon. This chapter discusses the interactions between the cyberspace electromagnetic
activities section and other staff sections and explains the role of the cyberspace electromagnetic activities
working group.
Chapter 4 describes how commanders and staffs integrate and synchronize cyberspace operations and
electromagnetic warfare through the operations process. This chapter further details key inputs and outputs
related to intelligence preparation of the battlefield, information collection, targeting, risk management, and
knowledge management.
Appendix A describes the two most common Army decision-making methodologies (the Army design
methodology and the military decision-making process) and procedures for these methodologies to plan,
integrate, and synchronize cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare with the operations process
and integrating processes.
Appendix B describes the rules of engagement and applicable sections of the United States Code associated
with cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare. It includes a table with all cyberspace operations
and electromagnetic warfare related to the United States Code (title authorities). Appendix B also consists of
a table with a list of federal laws protecting United States civilians’ information and privacy rights.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 vii
Introduction
Appendix C discusses considerations when conducting cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare
as part of a joint force or with unified action partners.
Appendix D discusses the national, Department of Defense, and Army Reserve components that support
cyberspace operations. This appendix also provides an overview of the United States Cyber Command and
its subordinate joint organizations that deliver cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare support to
Army commanders using cyberspace mission forces.
Appendix E discusses how Army units request cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare support
when operating in a joint environment. Graphic depictions display the request for support processes for both
offensive and defensive cyberspace operations.
Appendix F provides general procedures for conducting electromagnetic warfare reprogramming. It
describes the four phases of electromagnetic warfare reprogramming and its three major categories and
actions.
Appendix G provides an overview of Soldier training and expands on training for those seeking a career in
cyberspace and electromagnetic warfare.
viii FM 3-12 24 August 2021
Chapter 1