Attribution
From the malicious document perspective, we believe that the naming scheme for intel.wll –
which is dropped by version 7.x of RoyalRoad is not enough to make a clear cut attribution,
as we observed the same name used by various threat actors dropping different malware families
such as Bisonal and Poison Ivy .
From the payload perspective, on the other hand, once we found the additional related samples
mentioned in the Hunting section above, we were able to connect it to a known threat group. In
the NWCWorkstation.dll sample mentioned above, we observed a unique string as part of the
logging functionality: “ V09SS0lO” . This led us to an article from 2017 by Palo Alto Networks, titles
Threat Actors Target Government of Belarus, which describes an attack that utilizes a RAT
named BYEBY .
The article itself also connects to a previous article dating back to 2016, where the same tools
were used in an attack targeting the Mongolian government. The article also explores the
connections between these attacks and previous attacks related to the Enfal Trojan.
By comparing the IOCs from the 2017 attack to our campaign we observed several similarities:
Infrastructure Similarities
The servers from the 2017 publication were set on the same infrastructure as all the other
samples found during our investigation, and utilize Vultr and GoDaddy services.
Code Similarities
When analyzing one of the files from the open directory
( bf9ef96b9dc8bdbc6996491d8167a8e1e63283fe ), we noticed that it decrypts and loads a DLL
named wincore.dll . By investigating this dropped file, we were able to make several
correlations to the BYEBY sample from 2017:

String similarity:

“BYEBY” strings
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/vicious-panda-the-covid-campaign/ 8/15
3/16/2020 Vicious Panda: The COVID Campaign - Check Point Research
“wincore.dll” strings

Function similarity – Important functions in both BYEBY and wincore.dll have almost

the same implementation. One such function is the payloads’ main thread function.
Malware implementation similarities

Global Call-Graph and X-Ref Graph – Even though some obfuscation exists in both

samples, we were able to verify that they have similar call and reference graphs, meaning
that the core functionality of the executables is the same.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2020/vicious-panda-the-covid-campaign/ 9/15
3/16/2020 Vicious Panda: The COVID Campaign - Check Point Research