APPENDIX E: POTENTIALLY TARGETED VENDORS
Note To obtain the latest version of this list check our malware-research github page
We have cross-referenced the list of usernames and passwords that Moose uses in order to spread
with a list of vendors known to have these as default credentials and confirmed that some of their
products have Telnet access enabled. Here is the list of potentially targeted vendors we’ve come
up using this methodology:
Network equipment vendors
3Com, Alcatel-Lucent, Allied Telesis, Avaya, Belkin, Brocade, Buffalo, Celerity, Cisco,
D-link, Enterasys, Hewlett-Packard, Huawei, Linksys, Mikrotik, Netgear, Meridian, Nortel,
SpeedStream, Thomson, TP-Link, Zhone, ZyXEL
Appliances vendors
APC, Brother, Konica/Minolta, Kyocera, Microplex, Ricoh, Toshiba, Xerox
Internet of Things vendors
Hik Vision, Leviton
Keep in mind that this is a list of potentially targeted vendors. Current Moose versions need some
Unix-type shell access in order to infect a machine where it successfully logged in. On some devices
this type of access is hidden behind another set of credentials or tech-support secret passwords.
Moose doesn’t target these environments. Since we don’t have access to the hardware for testing
we couldn’t validate this aspect in the above lists.
If you have access to any of this hardware please let us know:


Is Telnet enabled by default?


Can you login with the default credentials via Telnet?


What make and model do you have?


What happens if you type in ~~sh~~ and then Enter on the default prompt?


If the credentials can be used via Telnet to login, if Telnet is enabled by default and if a shell access
can be obtained by typing ~~sh~~ in the device’s prompt, then these are very good indicators that a device
could be infected by Linux/Moose.
The last list below contains vendors that were correlated using the default credentials list
as previously mentioned but that we were not able to gather information about if they had Telnet
access enabled or not.
Ericsson, F5 Networks, Fortinet, Siemens, LSI Corporation, Maxim Integrated, Accelerated
Network, Quantum, Advantek, Airtel, AirTies, Radware, Ubee Interactive, AOC, Applied
Innovations, Arescom, ARtem, Asante, Ascend, ATL, Atlantis, AVM, Avocent, Axis, Aztech, Bay
Networks, Bintec, BMC, Broadlogic, Canyon, Cellit, Ciphertrust, CNet, Compaq, Comtrend,
Conceptronic, Conexant, Corecess, CTC Union, Cyclades, Davox, Demarc, Digicom, Draytek,
Dynalink, E-Con, Efficient, Everfocus, Flowpoint, Gericom, IBM, iDirect, Inchon, Infacta,
Infoblox, INOVA, Interbase, Intermec, Intracom, JD Edwards, Kasda, KTI, Lantronix, Laxo, LG,
Livingston, Marconi, McAfee, McData, Mentec, Micronet, Milan, Motorola, Mro software,
Netopia, Netport, Netscreen, Netstar, Niksun, Nokia, NOMADIX, Olitec(trendchip),
OpenConnect, Osicom, Overland, Ovislink, Pansonic, Phoenix, Pirelli, Planet, Ptcl, QLogic,
Quintum Technologies, RM, RoamAbout, Sagem, Samsung, Server TechnologyPower, Sharp,
Signamax, Siips, Silex Technology, Simple Smdr, Sitecom, Smartswitch, SMC, Sonic-X, Spectra
Logic, SpeedXess, Sphairon, SSA, Stratacom, Swissvoice, Symbol, System/32, Tandem, Telewell,
Telindus, Tellabs, Topsec, Troy, TVT System, U.S. Robotics, Unisys, VASCO, VxWorks, Wang,
Weidmüeller, Westell, X-Micro, xd, Xylan, Xyplex, Zebra, ZTE
If you know that a particular vendor make and model that could be affected please contact us and
contact them.
52