Looking Forward

Internet of Things (IoT) devices are still in their infancy and the

concept of IoT has not yet become widely adopted or even
available to the average end user. There are, however, a large
number of devices being sold already that would fit under the IoT
umbrella, even if they do not make use of the IoT communication
standards. While targeted attacks against IoT devices are unlikely
at this time, the potential to abuse IoT devices for amplified DDOS
as well as disrupting IoT networks through DOS’ing of central
control infrastructure might well be possible.
Outlook for China-Based Adversaries
China is, by now, well known for conducting cyber espionage
campaigns focused on accessing intelligence about intellectual
property, mergers and acquisitions, and technologies highlighted
in its Five-Year plans. Targeting these technologies and strategic
business information allow its domestic companies to rapidly make
“leap frog” developments, and to benefit from favorable bargaining
positions, thus elevating them to become global leaders. This
behavior is expected to continue in 2015, as will continued targeting
of foreign government entities in an attempt to access information
related to the global strategy and plans of these countries.
China is expected to continue to leverage this espionage as a means
to conduct intelligence collection to support its aspirations to
further push the envelope on its territorial claims. This is particularly
true in the South China Sea (SCS) conflicts with Vietnam and the
Philippines, and the Senkaku/Diaoyu island dispute with Japan.
China has already undertaken substantial construction of manmade
islands in the SCS to begin projecting its power, and as its Navy
continues to grow, it will only seek to push further beyond its
current boundaries. China is aggressively moving forward with the
design and implementation of its own aircraft carriers, which will
no doubt have an impact in this regional issue, allowing the PRC to
project force and intimidate its neighbors.
64