Operation Blockbuster: Loaders, Installers and Uninstallers Report 3
This report details some of the technical findings of the Lazarus Group’s malware, observed
by Novetta during Operation Blockbuster. We recommend reading the initial report prior to
the reverse engineering reports for more details on the Operation and the Lazarus Group.
This reverse engineering report looks at the installers, loaders, and uninstallers found within
the Lazarus Group’s collection.
Installers provide an actor with a convenient way to install malware on a victim’s system with minimum user
intervention. Installing malware on a victim’s system usually entails copying the malware binary to the appropriate,
desired location, installing a mechanism to ensure that the malware remains active after a system reboot, installing any
additional configuration parameters or files, and, of course, the actual activation of the malware on the victim’s machine.
These steps can be cumbersome and error prone when done manually. An installer eases the burden on the actor by
providing a single application that will perform the installation activities consistently across multiple infections.
Loaders are responsible for loading a piece of malware on a victims’ system, but not necessary installing the malware.
Clearly loaders and installers have similar traits, but the primary distinction is that a loader is usually a support system
for another malware component. Loaders are typically responsible for loading a DLL component into memory given that a
DLL cannot operate in a standalone mode such as an executable.
On the opposite side of the coin, an uninstaller removes a particular set of files from a victim system. In most cases, the
uninstaller not only deletes the malware family’s binary, but also removes its services, ancillary files, and registry keys that
were installed as part of the installation process.
The Lazarus Group uses a variety of installers and loaders. Generally, there is a one-to-one relationship between installer
and the malware family it installs, but there are examples where one installer family has been observed dropping different
malware families over time. This report will explore the various installers, uninstallers and loaders Novetta has observed
the Lazarus Group using.
The naming scheme used by Novetta for the malware identified during Operation Blockbuster consists of at least two
identifiers which each identifier coming from the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)’s phonetic alphabet,
commonly referred to as the NATO phonetic alphabet. The first identifier specifies the general classification of the
malware family while the second identifier specifies the specific family within the larger general classification. For
example, IndiaAlfa specifies an installer family identified as Alfa.