Preface
FM 3-12 provides tactics and procedures for coordinating, integrating, and synchronizing Army cyberspace
operations and electromagnetic warfare to support unified land operations and joint operations. FM 3-12
explains Army cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare fundamentals, terms, and definitions. This
publication describes how commanders and staffs can integrate cyberspace operations and electromagnetic
warfare into unified land operations. This publication provides overarching guidance to commanders and
staffs on Army cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare at all echelons. This publication
supersedes FM 3-12, dated 11 April 2017.
The principal audience for FM 3-12 is all members of the profession of arms. Commanders and staffs of
Army headquarters serving as a joint task force or multinational headquarters should also apply joint or
multinational doctrine concerning the range of military operations and joint or multinational forces. Trainers
and educators throughout the Army will also use this publication.
Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure their decisions and actions comply with applicable United
States, international, and in some cases, host-nation laws and regulations. Commanders at all levels ensure
their Soldiers operate according to the law of war and the rules of engagement (See FM 6-27). They also
adhere to the Army Ethic as described in ADP 1.
FM 3-12 uses joint terms where applicable. Selected joint and Army terms and definitions appear in both the
glossary and the text. This publication is not the proponent for any Army terms. Terms and definitions for
which FM 3-12 is the source publication are boldfaced in the text. For other definitions shown in the text, the
term is italicized and the number of the proponent publication follows the definition.
FM 3-12 applies to the Active Army, Army National Guard or Army National Guard of the United States,
and United States Army Reserve, unless otherwise stated.
The proponent of FM 3-12 is the United States Army Cyber Center of Excellence. The preparing agency is
the Doctrine Division, United States Army Cyber Center of Excellence. Send comments and
recommendations on a DA Form 2028 ( Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms ) to
Commander, United States. Army Cyber Center of Excellence and Fort Gordon, ATTN: ATZH-OP-D (FM
3-12), 506 Chamberlain Avenue, Fort Gordon, GA, 30905-5735; by e-mail to usarmy.gordon.cybercoe.mbx.gord-fg-doctrine@mail.mil.
24 August 2021 FM 3-12 v