KEY FINDINGS AND FORECASTS
group-ib.com
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
Ransomware attacks
~~Current threats~~
The main goal:
create access to corporate networks
for ransomware purposes
Ransomware affiliate
programs shape the market of corporate
network access for sale
— Over the past year, seven new
ransomware affiliate programs have
emerged (bringing the total to 15),
which has shaped the market of corporate network access for sale.
— Between H2 2019 and H1 2020, the
number of access for sale offers has
increased 2.6-fold (from 138 to 362)
compared to the previous period.
— There are more and more users who
actively sell access to corporate networks. In 2019, there were 50 active
sellers; in the first half of 2020,
Group-IB identified 63.
— Owners of the banking botnets
TrickBot, Qbot, Silent Night, and RTM
have started using their botnets
to deploy ransomware.
— The cybercriminal groups Cobalt
and Silence, which had previously focused on targeted attacks
on banks, have presumably joined
ransomware affiliate programs.
~~Forecasts~~
— Group-IB expects that specialized
trading platforms will emerge for
exhibiting lots with access to corporate networks, which may lead
to even more related incidents.
— We expect that there will be more
demand for Linux malware designed
to achieve persistence in the network
and escalate privileges.
— IoT botnet owners may start selling
access to devices installed on corporate networks.
— New botnets and related criminal
services for distributed brute-force
attacks on remote control interfaces
will emerge.
group-ib.com
→ Key findings and Forecasts
— Primitive errors (such as vulnerable
software versions in public services
or weak passwords) pose one of the
most serious risks to companies.
If a vulnerable system is compromised, adversaries will usually
attempt to inflict as much damage
to the business as possible, followed
by extortion.
— Ten ransomware affiliate programs
involve brute-force attacks on serv
ers accessible externally through
Remote Desktop Services. Three programs exploit vulnerabilities in VPN
services.
— New botnets that perform distributed brute-force attacks on remote
access interfaces (RDP, SSH, VPN)
and other services have been
identified.
— One of the most common ways
that victims are tricked into paying
ransoms is stealing data from the
network and threatening to leak the
information online.
— In an effort to increase their profits, some groups have conducted
auctions to sell stolen data instead
of publishing it online.
— Ransomware proved so popular that
criminals began to publish readymade ransomware-as-a-service
(RaaS) projects for Linux, MacOS, and
Windows (e.g., the RAASNet project)
on websites such as GitHub.
— The number of ransomware affiliate
programs will grow for a brief time
only. Group-IB expects that the
market will stabilize and that num
bers will stop increasing by the end
of 2020.
— There may be cases of ransomware
attacks targeting company mail systems. Hackers are likely to steal data
from local mail servers and disable
the mail system — bearing in mind
that stable email communications
are critical to businesses. This may
lead to cloud mail services becoming
more popular and the on-prem mail
storage model being abandoned.
— Groups that focus on attacks
— Cybercriminals have mainly used
two post-exploitation frameworks
to move laterally and gain control
over targeted corporate networks:
a free tool called Metasploit and
a cracked version of Cobalt Strike.
Less often, adversaries used the
frameworks PoshC2 and Koadic.
During the reporting period,
Group-IB experts identified more
than 10,000 hosts with these frame
works installed. Between H2 2018
and H1 2019, Group-IB researchers
identified around 6,000 such hosts.
— The countries attacked the most
often were the USA, the UK, Canada,
France, and Germany. They suffered
381 attacks out of 505, i.e. 75%.
— The most attacked sector was manu
facturing. Half of all attacks targeted
entities in the manufacturing, trade,
government, healthcare, construction, and academic sectors.
— Group-IB identified cases of threat
actors using new ransomware
designed to disrupt processes
associated with industrial net
work applications. Such tools help
cybercriminals encrypt valuable
data at manufacturing plants more
effectively.
on SCADA systems at industrial
enterprises in order to manipulate
production processes may emerge.
— Intelligence services may be interested in owners of affiliate programs
and use them to access networks
of interest.
— To inflict maximum damage on entities and divert attention away from
their attacks, special services may
start mimicking criminals by spreading documents that undermine the
attacked organization’s business
operations or by selling access to the
affected corporate networks.
page 8 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
Military operations
~~Current threats~~
More and more often
espionage is replaced
by active attempts
to destroy infrastructure facilities
High-profile attack
targets include
nuclear facilities in Iran and India
and Israel's water supply system
~~Forecasts~~
— Against the backdrop of rising
tension in the Middle East, attacks
on the control systems of transport
ships in the Persian Gulf may be carried out.
— Group-IB expects more sabotage
operations against Iran's critical
infrastructure facilities, especially
→ Key findings and Forecasts
— Intelligence agencies are attacking
more aggressively. Their goal is now
not only to spy on targets covertly
but also destroy critical infrastructure facilities.
— During the reporting period, seven
new APT groups were identified.
Group-IB also identified six known
threat groups that had remained
unnoticed for many years.
— As part of an APT operation, adversaries shut down power units
at nuclear power plants and physically destroyed the surrounding
infrastructure.
— A major cyberattack on a water
management facility was thwarted.
those related to nuclear energy.
— Security vendors have begun developing features for detecting backdoors at the UEFI level more actively.
Such tools will help detect new UEFI
malware leveraged during military
operations.
During the incident, threat actors
attempted to poison water by altering water chlorine levels. Had it been
successful, the civilian population
in the country would have been seriously affected.
— Some country leaders began openly
announcing successful attacks
on other countries.
— Hacker arsenals were actively
replenished with tools designed for
attacks on air-gapped networks. Over
the past year, four tools using USB
for bridging the air gap have been
identified.
— New achievements made by Elon
Musk's companies in the space
industry may attract the attention
of special services, both for espionage purposes and in order to gain
control over the control systems
of his satellite internet constellation.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Key findings and Forecasts
Threats to the telecommunications sector
~~Current threats~~
— 5G networks have not been widely
deployed yet, which explains why the
predictions relating to associated
threats that we made in our previous
report have not come true. They are
relevant for the next period, however.
— BGP hijacking and route leaks remain
a serious problem. Over the past
year, nine significant cases have
been publicized.
and storage systems will continue to increase given that they
help advanced crime groups and
state-sponsored actors access
corporate data without infiltrating
an organization's perimeter.
State-sponsored groups
show an interest in the telecom sector and
conduct sophisticated attacks against it
2.3 Tb per second
and 809 million packets
per second
new records in DDoS attack power
~~Forecasts~~
— As interstate conflicts continue
to escalate, it is expected that threat
actors will attack telecom operators
for the first time in order to cause
logical network congestion, which
would lead to a cascading effect and
affect multiple industries.
— During the reporting period, six
groups linked to special services
actively attacked the telecommunications sector.
— China is expanding its capacities
in spying on mobile operators. To this
end, it has developed a special Trojan
for Linux servers that intercepts SMS
messages based on specific criteria.
— Threat actors have set new records
in DDoS attack power: 2.3 Tb per
second and 809 million packets per
second.
— The COVID-19 pandemic has forced
a significant number of people
to work from home, and many
of them will become permanent
work-from-home employees after
the pandemic ends. As such, the
number of attacks on home routers
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Key findings and Forecasts
Threats to the energy sector
~~Current threats~~
— During the reported period, nine
groups linked to intelligence services
attacked the energy sector. Seven
hackers reportedly sold access
to energy networks. In addition,
eleven successful attacks involving
ransomware were conducted on the
sector in question.
Both state-sponsored groups
and organized crime actors
disrupt facilities and encrypt data
in order to demand ransoms
Air gap bypassed:
year. In the reporting period, however, Iran's nuclear energy facilities
were sabotaged, while facilities
in India were subject to espionage
attacks. Threat actors are particularly
interested in India because the coun
try is developing nuclear technology
and thorium-based reactors.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Key findings and Forecasts
Threats to the banking sector
~~Current threats~~

The threat actors gained
access to the card processing system and changed withdrawal limits.
They also gained access to InstaPay,
an interbank transfer system.
As a result, they siphoned 167 million
pesos (USD 3.44 million) from the
bank.

— Tools used for attacks on ATMs have
evolved slightly. During the reporting
period, the following utilities were
identified: ATMDtrack developed
by Lazarus and a new version of the
ATM Trojan developed by Silence.
It has not been confirmed whether
either utility has been successfully
used in thefts.
— Cobalt and Silence have presumably
joined ransomware affiliate programs, but they have shifted their
focus from banks.
financial files belonging to Mossack
Fonseca, a Panamanian law firm),
in which some intelligence agencies
are likely to be interested.
— Another trend may be threat actors
threatening to send (fake) alerts
to financial regulators notifying
that a bank has security issues.
Threatening to send such notifications may act as an incentive
for banks to pay higher amounts
to extortionists.
Targeted thefts are
becoming rare cases
relevant only for poorly protected banks
Hackers gaining access
and encrypting data
to obtain hefty ransoms
is a trend in the banking sector
— In 2020, there have so far been
no public reports on thefts through
SWIFT, ATM Switch, payment
gateways or ATMs when they were
accessed through a bank’s network.
— Nevertheless, the hacker group
Lazarus reportedly continued
to carry out theft attempts through
SWIFT. To gain initial access, the
~~Forecasts~~
— Next year, there will probably
be no traditional attacks on banks for
theft purposes. There may be rare
incidents, but this type of activity
will no longer be as widespread
as it used to be.
— As with other sectors, ransomware
operators will pose the biggest
threat to the financial vertical. This
hypothesis is confirmed by the
increasing number of offers selling access to corporate networks
belonging to financial institutions.
hackers used a banking botnet called
Trickbot controlled by Russianspeaking cybercriminals. Moreover,
Group-IB researchers detected
activity by another threat group
that used publicly available Trojans,
keyloggers, and unmodified exploits.
Such toolsets are effective only
against banks with a minimum level
of security. Alternatively, during incident response, security teams may
have made mistakes that prevented
them from identifying more sophisticated tools.
— In the second half of 2019, only the
group Silence carried out successful
thefts without using SWIFT. They
stopped attacking the financial sector in 2020, however.
— The Philippine government-controlled United Coconut Planters Bank
(UCPB) was robbed in September
— However, stealing information about
financial transactions of VIP clients
and publishing it online may become
a more serious threat than data
encryption. Such attacks may cause
significant financial damage and
make banks pay ransoms to threat
actors more readily.
— Disclosing financial transaction data
could launch a series of investi
gative journalism cases similar
to the Panama Papers case in 2015
(a massive exposure of confidential
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
Threats to retail
~~Current threats~~
96 JS sniffer families
are currently being tracked
by Group-IB experts
156% more bank card dumps
stolen using POS Trojans were offered
for sale compared to the previous period
— It is possible to single out four main
threats targeting retailers that may
damage businesses: JS sniffers,
attacks on POS terminals, credential
stuffing, and ransomware.
— The number of known JS sniffer fam
ilies has grown from 38 to 96 compared to the previous year.
— The state-sponsored threat
group Lazarus has started using
~~Forecasts~~
— Many online resources are hacked
every day. Currently, the main monetization methods used by hackers
are selling databases and hosting
phishing pages. However, damage
to businesses may increase drastically, and along with it the profits
made by cybercriminals if the latter
begin actively cooperating with ransomware developers.
— Hacker groups using JS sniffers will
pose a major threat to online retailers, especially in the US. At the same
time, the main business risks will
be associated with fines for security
violations rather than with compensation for damage to customers
or reputational losses.
→ Key findings and Forecasts
JS sniffers. The threat actor uses
a JS sniffer variant that automat
ically steals funds from Bitcoin
wallets.
— Techniques that prevent JS sniffers from being detected on web
resources have improved greatly.
— The carding market has doubled
from $880 million to $1.9 billion compared to the previous year.
— During the reporting period, 14 POS
Trojans were found to be active. They
were used to compromise and sell
63.7 million bank card dumps, which
is 156% more than in the previous
year.
— The amount of bank card textual
details offered for sale has increased
from 12.5 million to 28.3 million. The
largest bank card data leaks are due
to US retailers being compromised.
— Attacks on computers with connected POS terminals aimed at col
lecting bank card dumps will remain
a major threat in the United States.
— Scammers often use a fraudu
lent scheme as part of which they
perform financial transactions
in a given location, then use access
to POS terminals to cancel the
operations in other countries. The
actions restore the card balance,
and the cybercriminals can continue to perform fraudulent financial
transactions. We may see similar
new schemes involving access
to online resources that accept card
payments.
— During the reporting period, 19 compromised retailer networks were
identified, compared to 17 in the
previous year.
— Scammers primarily targeted bank
cards issued in the United States,
which accounts for more than 92%
of all card dumps, followed by India
and South Korea.
— Although many vendors offer solutions for protecting against bots and
attacks such as credential stuffing,
threat actors continue to actively
use bots without browsers, which
offers opportunities to create
more advanced tools for bypassing
defenses as well as possibilities
to develop the cybercrime market
in this direction.
— The carding market keeps growing.
However, arrests of main players
may stop this growth and redistribute carding activity between
criminals.
— The main schemes for obtaining
bank cards and the list of popular target countries are unlikely
to change.
— Carders may become more active
in Latin America, where there
is a large community of hackers with
experience in using financial Trojans.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
Banking Trojans
~~Current threats~~
19 PC Trojans and
10 Android Trojans
have been active this year
Owners of banking botnets
are switching to ransomware
~~Forecasts~~
— Russian-speaking owners of banking
botnets for both PCs and Android
devices will reduce their activity even
further. Eventually, such botnets will
cease to exist.
— As banking Trojans become more
active in Latin America, some of their
→ Key findings and Forecasts
— Latin America, particularly Brazil,
has become the main source of new
banking Trojans.
— Russian-speaking owners of the
largest banking botnets (Trickbot,
Dridex, Qbot, and Silent Night) have
been following the main trend and
switching to ransomware.
owners are likely to be arrested,
which will also reduce this threat
significantly.
— Every year, three to five banking
botnets for PCs disappear from the
market. At this rate, the market for
PC banking Trojans may become
— A total of 19 PC banking Trojans were
active this year, 12 of which were
written by Russian-speaking developers. Six Trojans were developed
by Latin American authors. One tool
could not be attributed.
— In total, 10 Android banking Trojans
were active this year. Five of them
are brand new.
nonexistent in three to five years.
A similar situation may occur with
the market for Android Trojans, which
are becoming less and less effective
year after year.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
→ Key findings and Forecasts
Web phishing and social engineering
~~Current threats~~
— So far, the main trend in 2020 is the
use of one-time unique links that
become inactive after the user
opens them. This approach helps
cybercriminals keep web phishing
resources from being detected.
— In Russia, the main reason for
the significantly higher numbers
of phishing attacks is the emergence of various affiliate programs
for hackers wanting to make money
off phishing related to fake bank
rewards programs, lottery draws,
paid surveys, etc.
— Phishing-as-a-Service projects have
become widespread in Russia.
— One of the greatest challenges
for the cybersecurity industry will
be hackers using one-time web
phishing links.
A 118% growth
in phishing compared to the previous year
New trend:
using one-time links
to phishing websites
— Over the period investigated, 118%
more phishing resources were
identified and taken down compared
to the previous reporting period.
— The COVID-19 pandemic has
encouraged more cybercriminals
~~Forecasts~~
— Phishing affiliate programs that have
become more popular in Russia
will be more actively used in other
regions.
to become involved in phishing
attacks, which is one of the key reasons for the above-mentioned rise.
— Phishing attacks targeting bookmakers increased in Q2 2020, amounting
to 6% versus 2% in the previous
quarter.
— Another attack type that increased
by 9% was phishing used to collect
accounts for various online services
such as Microsoft, Netflix, Amazon,
eBay, and Valve Steam.
— Phishing resources targeting cryptocurrency projects have disappeared
almost completely.
— Phishing attacks have become
automated and longer-lasting thanks
to the emergence of scams propagated through the Phishing-as-aService model. We expect that such
projects will be actively developed
and distributed.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021