Comment from Spence Hutchinson, Manager of Threat Intelligence for eSentire
“Security leaders and their teams need to know that the threat group behind SolarMarker
has gone to a lot of effort to compromise business professionals, spreading a wide net and
using many tactics to successfully disguise their traps,” said Spence Hutchinson, Manager
of Threat Intelligence for eSentire. “For instance, the Solar Marker group has:
:
Deployed over 100,000 web pages via Google Sites. The benefits of being hosted on
Google’s infrastructure are several. First, Google is trusted by both security
appliances and human eyes. Secondly, it probably doesn't hurt your PageRank score
with Google to use Google’s infrastructure. The pages are also padded with
generated text keywords, a tactic likely used to further influence search results.
The threat actors have created tens of hundreds of web pages with popular business
terms, such as invoice, statement, receipt, questionnaire, so that when a business
professional is searching the Internet for a specific business template, then there is
a chance that the top search results will include one of their malicious pages.
The infection process relies on exploiting the user, not an application. The user
simply executes a binary disguised as a PDF to infect the machine. This is an
increasingly common trend with malware delivery, which speaks to the improved
security of applications such as browsers that handle vulnerable code.
Unfortunately, it reveals a glaring blindspot in controls which allow users to execute
untrusted binaries or script files at will.
https://www.esentire.com/security-advisories/hackers-flood-the-web-with-100-000-malicious-pages-promising-professionals-free-business-forms-but-are-deliv… 2/11
4/21/2021 eSentire | Hackers Flood the Web with 100,000 Malicious Pages,…
The SolarMarker campaign utilizes a variety of decoy applications. Most recently,
TRU observed that the Slim PDF reader software was the decoy being downloaded
onto the victim’s computer. This serves as a distraction, as well as an additional
element to help convince the victim that they are downloading a pdf.
“Another troubling aspect of this campaign is that the SolarMarker group has populated
many of their malicious web pages with keywords relating to financial documents, e.g.,
statements, receipts, invoices, etc.,” continued Hutchinson.. “A financial cybercrime
group would consider an employee, working in the finance department of a company, or
an employee, working for a financial organization, a high value target. In fact, the
SolarMarker incident which eSentire disrupted involved an employee of a financial
management company. Once a remote access trojan (RAT) has been installed on a
victim’s computer, the threat actors can upload additional malware to the device, such as
a banking trojan, which could be used to hijack the online banking credentials of the
organization. Or a credential stealer could be installed, which could be used to steal the
employee’s email credentials, enabling the hackers to launch a business email
compromise scheme. Unfortunately, once a RAT is comfortably installed, the potential
fraud activities are numerous.”