4. Countermeasures
BlackTech has two main attack vectors. The first is an attack method
originates from spear phishing emails. The second is an attack method exploits
server vulnerabilities.
The best way to defend against spear phishing emails is to avoid opening
suspicious emails, links or files. BlackTech attacks with emails and attachments
that are spoofed as if they were clients of the target. It is possible to prevent
the attack by carefully checking the sender email address, the text of emails,
and the double extensions of attachments. In addition, the installation of email
security products is also an effective measure. Our SOC has observed that these
products have detected spear phishing emails by BlackTech.
To defend against exploitation of server vulnerabilities, we recommend that
applying the latest update programs or the latest security patches. Furthermore,
the installation and the properly operation of network security products and
endpoint security products are also effective measure. Even if your organization
were initially accessed by such threat actor, these products will detect later
behaviors. Our SOC has created custom signatures to detect such behaviors,
and in some cases, we have been able to minimize the damage by detecting
and quarantining them. Although BlackTech is actively developing new malware,
its attack techniques have not changed much. Thus, it is important to build
detection logics against them.
In both attack vectors as we mentioned, BlackTech targets vulnerable areas
of the target organization. In particular, overseas offices tend to be attacked by
BlackTech. Even if your organization’s critical infrastructure is managed in a
closed network, BlackTech will examine all possible paths to penetrate it, identify
where are vulnerable areas, and attempt to compromise them. Hence, proper
management of your organization’s systems is important.
Furthermore, BlackTech is known to repeatedly attack against the same
57
targeted organization. Even if BlackTech intruded once, or even if intrusions
were prevented, your organization’s systems still have risk to be attacked over
and over. We recommend keeping up with the latest attack trends and taking
measures properly and quickly.
58