of attacks on the telecom sector conducted by an active hacker group
page 40 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
APT41
The hacker group APT41 carried
out a number of attacks recently.
In February 2020, the hackers successfully exploited a Cisco RV320 router
at a telecommunications organization.
It is unknown what specific exploit was
used, but there is a Metasploit module
that combines CVE-2019-1653 and
CVE-2019-1652 to enable remote code
execution on such routers. It also uses
wget to download specified payloads.
APT41 also exploited the CVE2020-10189 vulnerability in Zoho
ManageEngine, which allows unauthenticated remote attackers to execute
arbitrary code with SYSTEM/root privileges. The day after CVE-2020-10189
was fixed, the threat actors attacked
over a dozen systems and compromised
at least five. They then deployed a trial
version of the Cobalt Strike BEACON
loader and used another backdoor
to download VMProtected Meterpreter.
OilRig
The Iranian group OilRig has been
directly involved in two campaigns
affecting the telecommunications
sector.
One of the campaigns lasted three
years and was dubbed Fox Kitten
by security researchers. During the
campaign, the threat actors gained
access to and ensured persistence
in the networks belonging to numerous companies and organizations
from various sectors, including
telecommunications.
In most cases, target organizations
were initially infected through one-day
vulnerabilities in various VPN services
such as Pulse Secure VPN, Fortinet
VPN, and Palo Alto Networks’ Global
Protect. Once inside the company,
the attackers would try to maintain
access to networks by opening a variety
of communication tools, including opening RDP links over SSH tunneling. At the
final stage, after successfully infiltrating
the organization, the attackers performed the routine process of identifying, examining and filtering sensitive valuable information from every targeted
organization.
The second campaign affected telecom
providers in South Asia and was discovered in April 2020. During the campaign,
the threat actors used post-exploitation
frameworks and tools such as Covenant,
Cobalt Strike, Metasploit, and Mimikatz.
In addition, the group used legitimate tools such as Plink, Bitvise, and
Bitsadmin. The threat actors used
phishing emails to gain initial access.
The campaign’s main aim was to steal
user credentials and gain access
to database servers using the obtained
credentials.
The attacks were long-term: the
threat actors may have infiltrated the
network of one organization as early
as in October 2019. The first activity
was detected on October 11, 2019,
when a malicious PowerShell command
was executed to install a Cobalt Strike
Beacon module. The threat actors then
executed a PowerShell command that
launched Metasploit for achieving persistence in the system.
The group’s activities resumed
on February 6, 2020, when a PowerShell
command was executed to search for
files similar to web.config. For each
file found, the threat actors extracted
username and password details where
possible. They may use the credentials
to access organizational resources such
as SQL servers.
On March 11, the threat actor attempted
to connect to a database server via
PowerShell, presumably using stolen
credentials. The hackers also used
an SQL command to obtain informa
tion about the database server ver
sion, possibly to verify credentials and
connectivity.
Molerats
Between October 2019 and early
December 2019, security researchers
identified multiple instances of phishing
→ Threats to the telecommunications sector
Attacks on mobile operators
APT41, a Chinese state-sponsored
threat group, was highly active during
the investigated period. The group
actively deployed malware called
MESSAGETAP.
The malware is designed for Linux
devices and meant to be installed
on Short Message Service Center
(SMSC) servers located inside mobile
operator networks that handle SMS
communications. After compromising
a cluster of Linux servers belonging
to an unidentified telecom provider,
the group would intercept messages
group-ib.com
sent by individuals of interest to the
Chinese government. The criminals then
searched for messages based on the
keyword list containing items of geopolitical interest for Chinese intelligence
services. Sanitized examples include the
names of political leaders, military and
intelligence organizations, and political
movements at odds with the Chinese
government.
MESSAGETAP also sets aside SMS
messages if they are sent from
or to particular phone numbers,
or from or to a device with a particular
attacks likely related to a threat group
called Molerats (also known as Gaza
Hackers Team and Gaza Cybergang).
The group targeted organizations in the
telecommunications, insurance, and
retail industries and government agencies, eight in total, all in six countries.
All the attacks involved spear-phishing emails with malicious documents
that required the recipient to carry out
certain actions. The social engineering
techniques involved misleading images
that tricked users into enabling content
to run macros. The hackers also threat
ened to release compromising pictures
to the media as a way of coercing users
into clicking a link and downloading
malicious payloads. During most such
attacks, the payload was a backdoor
called Spark, which allows threat actors
to open applications and run command
line commands on the compromised
system.
Mikroceen
Security experts analyzed a Trojan
used by an unknown Chinese APT that
spied on undisclosed companies in the
telecommunications and gas industries as well as a government entity
in Central Asia. The analysts called this
campaign Mikroceen.
As part of their operations, the threat
group used backdoors to gain per
manent access to corporate networks. Based on the data obtained,
Group-IB researchers believe that
the same group was involved in other
attacks, including Microcin against
Russian military personnel, BYEBY
against the Belarussian government, and Vicious Panda against the
Mongolian public sector. The group has
been active since at least 2017.
The experts justify this theory by the
fact that the hackers used Gh0st RAT,
which has been used by Chinese APTs
often and for a long time. In addition,
the analysts discovered clear similarities in the malware codes.
International Mobile Subscriber Identity
(IMSI) unique identifier. When it was
discovered, the malware was tracking
thousands of device phone numbers
and IMSI codes at a time.
During attacks, the threat actor also
interacted with call detail record (CDR)
databases to query, save, and steal
records about individuals of interest.
Targeting CDR information provides
a high-level overview of phone calls
between individuals, including time,
duration, and phone numbers.
page 41 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021
MESSAGETAP is a 64-bit ELF data miner
initially loaded by an installation script.
Once installed, the malware checks
for two files: keyword_parm.txt and
parm.txt, which contain instructions
for MESSAGETAP to target and save
SMS message content. Both files are
deleted from the disk once the configuration files are read and loaded into
the memory. After loading the keyword
BGP Hijacking
→ Threats to the telecommunications sector
and phone data files, MESSAGETAP
begins monitoring all network connections to and from the server. It uses
the libpcap library to listen to all traffic
and extracts SMS message metadata,
including SMS message content, IMSI
numbers, and source and destination
phone numbers.
Based on the above information, users
and organizations must consider
the risk of unencrypted data being
intercepted several layers upstream
in their cellular communication chain.
This is especially critical for frequently
targeted individuals such as dissidents,
journalists, and officials who handle
highly sensitive information.
BGP hijacking remains a serious problem. Attacks and deliberate interruptions often occur because companies fail to correctly set configurations or prefix filters.
Date Name Brief description
07/21/2020 AS 264462 Comercial Conecte 13,046 prefixes leaked. The affected ISPs belong to India,
Sem Fio Ltda me, Brazil Russia, South Korea, Vietnam
06/09/2020 IBM Cloud IBM Cloud (cloud data center) malfunctioning because
an external provider sent incorrect routes
04/23/2020 AS205310 Beiersdorf Shared Services 90,000 prefixes compromised: Routes were redirected
GmbH, Germany to AS15943 instead of AS8220
04/22/2020 AS263444 Open X Tecnologia Ltda, Brazil 9,328 prefixes leaked from 1250 AS, including Akamai,
Cloudflare, Vodafone, NTT, Amazon, NVIDIA
04/05/2020 AS7552 Viettel, Vietnam 4,825 prefixes of 326 operators leake
04/01/2020 AS12389 Rostelecom, Russia 8,870 prefixes leaked from nearly 200 AS including Akamai,
Cloudflare, Hetzner, Digital Ocean, Amazon AWS
03/31/2020 AS50048 NEWREAL-AS, Russia Leak of 2,658 prefixes in Tier-2 ISP Transtelecom. The
prefixes belonged to Orange, Akamai, and Rostelecom
02/16/2020 AS139070 Google Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., Singapore —
02/07/2020 AS8359 "MTS", Russia 225 prefixes leaked from 36 AS
group-ib.com
page 42 of 78
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021 → Threats to the telecommunications sector
Growing power of DDoS attacks
by 56 to 70 times its initial size, making
it a highly sought-after protocol and
a common option provided by DDoSfor-hire services.
The previous record for the largest DDoS attack ever recorded was
1.7 Tbps. It was mitigated by NETSCOUT
Arbor in March 2018. The attack
abused Memcached servers exposed
to the Internet and reached massive
bandwidths.
page 43 of 78
An increase in the number of Internet
of Things (IoT) devices has led to more
and more hosts being added to infamous botnets such as Mirai. In addition,
new botnets have emerged.
As regards DDoS attack techniques,
SYN floods still remain the most
common type of attack. ICMP flood
attacks rose from last to second place
in popularity, and HTTP floods finished
in last place — they have become less
widespread since January 2019.
In 2020, denial-of-service attacks
became more effective. In the first half
of 2020, threat actors set new records
for DDoS attack power.
group-ib.com
Largest Gbps DDoS attack ever
recorded
According to Amazon's Q1 2020 threat
report, its AWS Shield service mitigated the largest DDoS attack ever
recorded, stopping a 2.3 Tbps attack
in mid-February this year. The company
did not disclose the attack’s target
or origin. The attack was carried out
using hijacked CLDAP web servers and
lasted three days. CLDAP (Connectionless Lightweight Directory Access
Protocol) is an alternative to the older
LDAP protocol that has been abused for
DDoS attacks since 2016. CLDAP serv
ers are known to amplify DDoS traffic
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2020/2021