Introduction
The number of targeted cyberattacks in general has risen in the past few years. In addition to this, the rate of
attack exposure has also risen, with more companies becoming aware of attacks, expecting them and searching
for indications of compromise. It is not a new phenomenon, but its importance has grown. The Council on
Foreign Relations, a US think tank, reported that energy companies, including oil and gas producers, were often
the focus of targeted attacks during summer 2012. In May 2013 the US Department of Homeland Security
(DHS) warned of an increase in sabotage attacks against US energy companies located in the Middle East. The
government had tracked multiple attacks and issued a warning together with the Industrial Control Systems
Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT). A report by the US Congress supported this picture, stating that
many power utilities companies were under constant or daily attack through cyberspace. Taking into account
that successful breaches of critical infrastructures are still rare and that these numbers included generic
malware infections, it nevertheless highlights the potential for cyberattacks in the energy sector.
As in most sectors, attackers are often after valuable information. For example, we have seen attackers target
intellectual property such as technology for photovoltaic research and wind turbines, or data on gas field
exploration. Information such as this is of high value and can generate huge profits for attackers or their
sponsors. The same information can also be misused for an act of sabotage. Many power utilities companies fear
disruptive attacks the most, regardless of whether it is done by internal or external attackers. The energy sector
has a high potential for critical disruption through sabotage attacks. Any interruption to the power grid would
cause substantial chaos and cascading effects resulting in financial loss.
In the past there have been quite a few attacks that included targets in the energy sector. Some of these were
more focused, like Stuxnet, Duqu, Shamoon/Disttrack and Night Dragon. Others saw power companies targeted
among many other sectors, such as Hidden Lynx, Nitro, Flamer, Net Traveler and Elderwood to name a few.
One of the biggest examples, and a game changer for many organizations, was Stuxnet. This targeted sabotage
attack, which is believed to have been aimed against uranium enrichment facilities in Iran, made clear what
could be done through cyberattacks.
It is also clear that the energy sector is not exempt from the generic attacks that every company faces, such
as ransomware that locks PCs or financial Trojans that attempt to steal passwords and credit card details. For
example, such a case happened in May 2013, when a small fuel distribution company in North Carolina fell
’
victim to a cyberheist that transferred US$800,000 from the company s bank account. Such threats spread
broadly and might impact any person, regardless of their employer. These attackers aim at infecting as many
computers as possible in order to maximize their chances of profits. These attacks can include nonspecific data
breaches where employee or customer records get stolen, as happened to the US Department of Energy in July
2013.
For this paper we focused on email data from targeted attacks between July 2012 and June 2013. Even though
watering holes are becoming more frequently used in targeted attacks, it is unfortunately quite difficult to
reliably map these to individual campaigns. A blocked drive-by download attempt does not give any indication
if it was a targeted attack or just general noise. In quite a few cases we see the same common malware, like
Poison Ivy, being used by generic attackers and by targeted attacks. In such cases the sole difference between a
sophisticated targeted attack and a generic one lies in the person commanding the malware.
Page 5
Targeted Attacks Against the Energy Sector