The art and science of detecting Cobalt Strike
If it exists, it jumps to the IMAGE_NT_OPTIONAL header
and checks the magic there.
After comparison, the AL byte is set to reflect the correct
architecture. This is used for further processing of the
file header. A quick run in Snort showed that this alerted
on every single beacon we generated. This doesn’t look
malicious on the surface, so researchers ran this function
with multiple preceding NOPs through false-positive
testing. Expectations were not high, but we couldn’t find a
single false positive. This wasn’t the case prior to adding in
the extra alignment bytes. Either NOP was less commonly
used for alignment in modern compilers, or we were
extremely lucky. Regardless, we had performed enough
due diligence in testing to give the rule a shot.
The result was four rules that are still going strong to this day.
• 1:53656 MALWARE-OTHER Cobalt Strike x86 execut­
able download attempt
• 1:53657 MALWARE-OTHER Cobalt Strike x86 execut­
able download attempt
• 1:53658 MALWARE-OTHER Cobalt Strike x64 execut­
able download attempt
• 1:53659 MALWARE-OTHER Cobalt Strike x64 execut­
able download attempt
TARGET MODULE: HTML APPLICATION ATTACK
GENERATOR
The focus of this attack generator is to generate an HTML
Application (HTA), a file extension for the HTML executable
file format and typically consists of HTML/Dynamic HTML
and a scripting language of choice. HTA files behave like
executables. They are popular among attackers because
they run as a fully trusted application in certain cases.
When using the HTML Application Attack generator the user
can select a Cobalt Strike listener as usual and the method,
including executable, PowerShell and VBA.
These methods do not determine the scripting language
used in the HTA files. In all methods, VBScript is used to
deliver the desired payload in the HTA file. The method,
however, changes the payload type and how it is executed
on the host. Let’s take a look at each of them.
Executable
The executable method (Figure 20) is a straightforward
Figure 20
Figure 21
Figure 22
attack, as it is simply designed to load a large ASCII hex
string and execute it on the host.
The shellcode is loaded by creating a Scripting.
FileSystemOjbect and using that to create a temporary
file on the host. After initializing the temporary file, the
shellcode stream is converted from hex string to bytes and
written to the file (Figure 18).
Finally, the file is executed using a WScript.Shell object and
the temporary file and folder are deleted to cover its tracks
(Figure 21).
PowerShell
The Powershell method is relatively naive at first glance,
as it once again uses the WScript.Shell object to invoke
PowerShell. This time, rather than creating a temporary
executable file, it simply runs powershell with a large
base64-encoded command (Figure 22).
We base64 decode the command, which results in a
unicode string containing additional PowerShell and another
base64 blob. Here, we can start to see the desired path to
© 2020 Cisco. All rights reserved. talos-external@cisco.com | talosintelligence.com page 13 of 29