Targeting
Based on our visibility into PKPLUG’s campaigns and what we’ve learned from collaborating with
industry partners, we believe victims lay mainly in and around the Southeast Asia region.
Specifically, the target countries/provinces include (with higher confidence), Myanmar and Taiwan
as well as (with lower confidence), Vietnam and Indonesia. Other areas in Asia targeted include
Mongolia, Tibet and Xinjiang. This blog, and the associated Adversary Playbook, provides further
details including: the methods used for malware delivery, the social engineering topics of decoy
applications and documents and the Command & Control (C2) infrastructure themes.
Indonesia, Myanmar and Vietnam are ASEAN members, contributing towards intergovernmental
cooperation in the region. Mongolia, specifically the independent country also known as Outer
Mongolia, has a long-standing and complex relationship with the PRC. Tibet and Xinjiang are
autonomous regions (AR) of China that tend to be classified by China’s ethnic minorities, granted
the ability to govern themselves but ultimately answering to the People’s Republic of China
(PRC). Tibet and Xinjiang are the only ARs, from five, where the ethnic group maintains a majority
over other populations.
Most, if not all, of the seven countries or regions, are involved in some way with Beijing’s Belt and
Road Initiative (BRI) designed to connect 71 countries across Southeast Asia to Eastern Europe
and Africa. The path through Xinjiang is especially important to the BRI’s success, but is more
often heard of due to conflicts between the Chinese government and the ethnic Uyghur
population. News of the BRI is peppered with stories of success and failure, of countries for and
against the BRI and of countries pulling out of existing BRI projects.
Further tensions in the region are attributed to ownership claims over the South China Sea,
including fishing quotas and the yet unproven oil and gas reserves. At least three of the target
countries mentioned (Malaysia, Taiwan and Vietnam) have laid claim to parts of these waters, and
some use the area for the vast majority of their trade. Foriegn militaries also patrol, attempting to
keep the area open.
Taiwan, which isn’t an AR and doesn’t appear to be actively involved with the BRI, has its own
long-standing history with the PRC — a recent $2.2 billion arms sale with the U.S. may
exacerbate matters.