About this report
The Microsoft Security Intelligence Report (SIR) focuses on software
vulnerabilities, software vulnerability exploits, malware, and unwanted software.
Past reports and related resources are available for download at
www.microsoft.com/sir. We hope that readers find the data, insights, and
guidance provided in this report useful in helping them protect their
organizations, software, and users.
Reporting period
This volume of the Microsoft Security Intelligence Report focuses on the first and
second quarters of 2016, with trend data for the last several quarters presented
on a quarterly basis. Because vulnerability disclosures can be highly inconsistent
from quarter to quarter and often occur disproportionately at certain times of
the year, statistics about vulnerability disclosures are presented on a half-yearly
basis.
Throughout the report, half-yearly and quarterly time periods are referenced
using the n H yy or n Q yy formats, in which yy indicates the calendar year and n
indicates the half or quarter. For example, 1H16 represents the first half of 2016
(January 1 through June 30), and 4Q15 represents the fourth quarter of 2015
(October 1 through December 31). To avoid confusion, please note the reporting
period or periods being referenced when considering the statistics in this report.
Conventions
This report uses the Microsoft Malware Protection Center (MMPC) naming
standard for families and variants of malware. For information about this
standard, see “Appendix A: Threat naming conventions” on page 135. In this
report, any threat or group of threats that share a common unique base name is
considered a family for the sake of presentation. This consideration includes
threats that may not otherwise be considered families according to common
industry practices, such as generic and cloud-based detections. For the
purposes of this report, a threat is defined as a malicious or unwanted software
family or variant that is detected by the Microsoft Malware Protection Engine.
MICROSOFT SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT, VOLUME 20, JANUARY–JUNE 2016  v