Ransomware
In the past, cybercriminals were spreading ransomware wherever they could, mostly using spam botnets
to try to infect as many machines as possible. While it remains a serious threat to any individual who
stores data on their computer, ransomware has become an even larger threat as ransomware actors have
been targeting companies specifically, with attacks that may have a big impact on daily operations.
Targeting individuals is fairly easy for cybercriminals, even for those with a low level of computer
knowledge. The easiest business model consists of subscribing to ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) offers
on underground cybercrime marketplaces. [18] Any fraudster can buy such a service and start delivering
ransomware to thousands of individuals’ computers by using exploit kits or spam emails.
Targeting companies and organizations takes more effort. Infecting a company with ransomware the
same way it is done with individuals is inefficient because the goal is not about infecting a few computers.
Typically, an actor will try to disrupt a whole company. To this end, the attacker needs to spend time
“profiling” its target entity, collecting information about it, much in the same way as the attacker would do
in a targeted attack.
That reconnaissance phase is necessary for the attacker to get to the next stage: compromising one or
several of the target computers, generally via specially tailored spear-phishing emails or by exploiting
an unsecure Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) connection. Once inside a network, the attacker will try
to move laterally and then carefully choose a moment to drop ransomware either on selected servers
or massively across the network. The end goal is to render the company unable to operate its normal
business or unable to recover its lost data (for example, by tampering with the backup system), so that it
is more likely to pay the ransom.
We found that a U.S. oil and natural gas company was hit by ransomware, infecting three computers and
its cloud backups. The computers that were targeted contained essential data for the company, and the
estimated total loss was more than US$30 million. While we do not have additional details on this case,
we believe the attackers did plan this attack carefully and were able to target a few strategic computers
rather than hitting the company with a massive infection.
15 | Drilling Deep: A Look at Cyberattacks on the Oil and Gas Industry
More recently, we discovered a variant of the ransomware family BitPaymer [19] that had targeted a U.S.
company specializing in providing services for oil well drilling. The actors behind BitPaymer typically
use spear phishing to infect their targets with initial malware, before spending time moving laterally and
compromising the network further. They plant the ransomware in specific spots in the network and launch
the malware, for example, on a Saturday night. They are efficient and dangerous, and they know how to
take advantage of the absence of IT people during weekends or holidays to infect selected machines and
encrypt the contents.
The ransom message of BitPaymer is the same for every target, except for the first line, where the company
name is written, and the email addresses for reaching the fraudsters.
Hello XXX.
Your network was hacked and encrypted.
No free decryption software is available on the web.
Email us at XXX@PROTONMAIL.COM (or) XXX@TUTANOTA.DE to get the ransom amount.
Keep our contacts safe. Disclosure can lead to impossibility of decryption.
Please, use your company name as the email subject.
Figure 5. The ransom message from the latest variants of BitPaymer (company name and
email addresses of fraudsters removed)