WINTAPIX driver
Recently, Fortinet revealed a wave of attacks against Middle Eastern targets (mostly
Saudi Arabia, but also Jordan, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates) that involve kernel
mode drivers that the researchers named WINTAPIX. Although the exact infection chain
to install the drivers is unknown, they target only IIS servers as they use the IIS
ServerManager object. The high-level execution flow is the following:

WINTAPIX driver is loaded in the kernel.

https://research.checkpoint.com/2023/from-albania-to-the-middle-east-the-scarred-manticore-is-listening/ 18/21
1/16/24, 1:06 PM From Albania to the Middle East: The Scarred Manticore is Listening - Check Point Research

WINTAPIX driver enumerates user-mode processes to find a suitable process with

local system privileges.

WINTAPIX driver injects an embedded shellcode into a previously found process.

The shellcode is generated using the open-source Donut project, which allows the
creation of a position-independent shellcode capable of loading and executing .NET
assemblies from memory.
4. The injected shellcode loads and executes an encrypted .NET payload.
The final payload is obfuscated with a commercial obfuscator in addition to already
familiar class, method, and string obfuscations, and it combines the functionality of the
SDD backdoor and FOXSHELL proxy. To achieve both, it listens on two sets of URL
prefixes, using ServerManager and HTTPListener similarly to the SSD backdoor.
The FOXSHELL version used within the driver payload is set to 1.7 . The main
enhancement introduced in this version is the Event Log bypass using a known technique
of suspending EventLog Service threads. The default EncryptionDll hardcoded in the
driver is the same Bsae64.dll, and the core proxy structure remains largely unaltered
when compared to FOXSHELL version 1.5.
Figure 27 – Version hardcoded in the .NET payload.
Figure 28 – FOXSHELL 1.7 class structure.
As an extensive analysis of the WINTAPIX driver and its version SRVNET2 was already
provided, here we only highlight the main overlaps between those and other discussed
tools that strengthen their affiliation:
The same code base as the SDD backdoor, including the heartbeat based on the
same string values wOxhuoSBgpGcnLQZxipa and UsEPTIkCRUwarKZfRnyjcG13DFA .
The same supported backdoor command types and encryption with the same key.
The same codebase as FOXSHELL, structure, and functionality.
The same obfuscation and encryption methods.