Machine learning on the offensive
Machine learning tools for defensive purposes are fairly mature at this point.
Harnessing machine learning for offensive purposes is likely to be another
significant growth area. While machine learning approaches have appeared in
niche offensive areas such as CAPTCHA solving, more sophisticated applications
are beginning to appear. Some academic work on using reinforcement
learning to automate the process of creating malware that can evade machine
learning has seen similar techniques applied in less controlled settings.
Some malware might also be instrumented with lightweight machine learning
models, such as simple classification algorithms in malware “droppers” (small
programs whose only job is to download the real malware from a server) to detect
sandboxes, which complicates analysis or reverse engineering. Finally, at DerbyCon,
offensive security researchers presented a heretofore theoretical “black box” attack
against ProofPoint’s email protection system, in which they used machine learning
scores to “clone” the email model and then build adversarial perturbations to emails
completely offline. This attack allowed the researchers to identify ‘hot button’ words
that the email classifier keyed in on, and use those words to evade the system.
Machine learning can be used to evade other security measures as well.
Academic work on using text-to-speech machine learning models to trick
speaker recognition and voice authentication models has already been
shown to be feasible, and such models have already (allegedly) been used
to impersonate the voice of a CEO in a “vishing” (voice phishing) scam.
Similar technology underlies “deepfakes,” which pose a real reputational risk (though
their ability to circumvent technical security measures might be limited). The
same publicly available tools that can put YouTube personality PewDiePie into a
Bollywood dance number may conceivably be used to manipulate the stock market.
While some initial efforts are underway to detect such fakes, these attacks are
particularly difficult to manage as they exploit “bugs” in people, rather than technical
vulnerabilities: even if a particular video is flagged as “fake,” it might be reshared
in a different context and so continue to promote the misleading message.
December 2019 26
Sophos 2020 Threat Report