KEY FINDINGS
and forecasts
STATE-SPONSORED THREAT GROUPS,
CYBERWEAPONS, AND CYBERWARS
CURRENT THREATS
38 groups
of state-sponsored attackers were
active throughout the period
investigated
7 new cyberspionage
groups
were discovered this year
Security analysts
mainly analyze groups from Russia,
North Korea, Pakistan, China, Vietnam,
Iran, the US, the UAE, India, Turkey, and
South America
Information
about research into cyberattacks
carried out by world powers remains
unpublished
For the first time in history, a missile
strike was carried out in response
to a cyberattack. The threat actors’
command center was destroyed
as a result. The strike was launched
by Israel, and the laws of other countries
do not prohibit military action in response
to cyberattacks. This sets an extremely
dangerous precedent.
World leaders claim that cyberweapons
can be used to disrupt adversaries’
defense infrastructure. Deploying such
weapons essentially equates to a military
operation on another country’s territory.
The blackout in Venezuela that left most
of the country without electricity for days
was partially caused by a cyberattack.
It is believed that the attack was carried
out by the opposition to destabilize the
country.
State-sponsored attackers are increasingly
interested in telecommunications
infrastructures. Their targets are operators,
domain name registrars, and organizations
responsible for top-level domains and root
name servers.
Some state-sponsored threat groups
go against each other. Disguised
as hacktivists, they make public the
tools used by their rivals and information
about them. On the one hand, this helps
criminal investigators find perpetrators.
On the other hand, it helps attackers
better imitate the activity of other
groups.
Attacks were carried out successfully
on computer manufacturers, with the
aim of delivering malicious code to the
equipment they produce. This shows
that many manufacturers are not ready
to fight targeted attacks, and supply
chain attacks on their customers will
remain a relevant attack vector.
FORECAST: USE OF CYBERWEAPONS TO DISRUPT INTERNET STABILITY IN SOME COUNTRIES
Scenarios in which a country could
be disconnected from the Internet
seemed unrealistic, yet they are
becoming increasingly likely. Disrupting
the Web requires long-term preparation,
but it is technically feasible. The
increasing warmongering rhetoric and
aggression could lead to demonstrations
of such capabilities. Governments
and businesses must ensure that their
services are robust enough to withstand
such situations.
Domain name registrars are part
of critical infrastructures. Disrupting
their work affects the World Wide Web,
which is why registrars are targeted
by government-sponsored threat actors.
Next year, there will be a high risk of more
threat actors carrying out successful
attacks, including for sabotage purposes.
Certain countries are trying to build
a system of centralized control over
Internet access. This runs contrary to the
principle of Internet robustness and
such countries are at higher risk of falling
victim to attacks that disrupt the Web
and cause more damage. As a result,
these countries may become a place
where threat actors conduct such attacks
and showcase their ability to disrupt the
Internet.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 8
GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE OF STATE-SPONSORED GROUPS
MIDDLE EAST RUSSIA & THE FORMER
AMERICA EUROPE APAC
& AFRICA SOVIET UNION
APT28 — Russia APT28 — Russia DarkHotel — North Korea OilRig — Iran Equation Group – USA
Gorgon Group —
Turla — Russia APT37 — North Korea APT37 — North Korea PowerPool
Pakistan
Gorgon Group —
Charming Kitten — Iran PowerPool Kimsuky — North Korea Windshift
Pakistan
Gorgon Group —
DarkHotel — North Korea Sidewinder — India Gaza Cybergang – Gaza MuddyWater – Iran
Pakistan
APT29 – Russia APT29 — Russia Chafer — Iran Bahamut – Middle East APT37 — North Korea
APT33 – Iran MuddyWater – Iran APT-C-35 MuddyWater – Iran Winnti – China
APT-C-36 – South
APT10 – China BlueMushroom APT33 – Iran Lazarus – North Korea
America
Kimsuky — North Korea APT33 – Iran APT10 – China Gallmaker Whitefly
Gamaredon Group – Gamaredon Group –
Xenotime — Russia APT29 – Russia APT-C-27 – Middle East
Russia Russia
Lazarus – North Korea Gallmaker OceanLotus – Vietnam Lazarus – North Korea Buhtrap – Russia
TEMP.Periscope — China Inception OilRig – Iran FruityArmor – UAE APT28 – Russia
STOLEN PENCIL –
Turla – Russia Whitefly Emissary Panda – China HEXANE
North Korea
LEAD – China Winnti - China APT-C-38
OceanLotus – Vietnam BITTER – India Domestic Kitten – Iran
Lazarus – North Korea Turla - Russia Chafer – Iran
TEMP.Periscope — China Xenotime – Russia StrongPity – Turkey
Lazarus – North Korea HEXANE
APT40 - China
Unidentified group,
TajMahal framework
*** new groups**
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 9
KEY TRENDS AND FORECASTS BY INDUSTRY
Threats to the telecommunications sector
CURRENT THREATS
9 groups
posed a threat to the
telecommunications sector during the
period investigated, i.e. more than to
the financial sector
Espionage and supply
chain attacks
are the main goals of these groups,
which is why their activity remains
unnoticed for longer
A major threat to the
telecommunications sector is BGP
hijacking, which disrupts the accessibility
of networks and many services they
power. After such attacks, restoring
accessibility usually takes several hours.
The expansion of 5G networks opens
up new opportunities for threat actors,
as does any type of next-generation
technology. 5G architecture paves the
way for new types of attacks on operators.
Vulnerable routers, which are rented out
to legal entities and individuals, present
an enormous threat to the telecom
sector. Insecure settings coupled with
no updates result in deteriorated services
and more malicious traffic. This gives
threat actors the opportunity to carry
out various attacks based on operators’
infrastructures.
FORECAST: THE DEVELOPMENT OF 5G NETWORKS WILL CREATE NEW THREATS
The cybersecurity level of 5G market
players will be a factor that determines
their share of the market.
Cybersecurity problems faced
by a 5G platform provider give other
providers a competitive advantage.
Demonstrations of ways to exploit and
disrupt the work of 5G operators will
be used as a tool of unfair competition.
Successful attacks could cause providers
irreparable reputational damage.
Wider 5G integration will significantly
increase the capabilities of ordinary
cybercriminals to carry out DDoS attacks,
manipulate traffic, and spread malware.
In a few years, telecom companies
will struggle to detect hardware and
firmware backdoors in 5G infrastructure
equipment.
Many telecom operators are Managed
Service Providers and provide security
services to government and commercial
organizations. Threat actors will attack
operators to penetrate the networks they
protect.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 10
Threats to the energy sector
CURRENT THREATS
Compromising IT networks using
traditional techniques and malware—
including living off the land attacks—
is the main vector for penetrating isolated
segments of OT networks.
Only two frameworks capable
of affecting processes, Industroyer and
Triton (Trisis), were detected in recent
years. Cybersecurity experts link them
to Russia.
Both frameworks were detected
due to a mistake on the part of their
operators. It is clear that many threats
remain undetected, which is a ticking
time bomb.
In 2019, Lazarus attacked an energy
company in India. The target is not
an obvious choice for a state-sponsored
threat group, which could point to the
military’s growing interest in this type
of attack.
7 groups
posed a threat to the energy sector
in the period investigated
Iran and Russia
are associated with these groups
FORECAST: IT NETWORKS AND SUPPLY CHAIN ATTACKS WILL BE THE MAIN PENETRATION VECTOR
The most significant threat is expected
to come from developed countries.
Threat actors in such regions are better
equipped, which is why their activity
is less noticeable and less thoroughly
investigated.
IT networks will remain the main attack
vector for threat actors. Access to these
segments is crucial for espionage and
collecting information about how
to attack a particular energy company for
sabotage purposes.
OT network compromise will be the next
step once the network’s IT segment
is successfully breached. Detecting
OT compromise is only possible in two
cases: if the attack is designed for
sabotage purposes or if the malware
operator makes a mistake. Attackers
often try to be as covert as possible until
they must carry out a mass attack.
Supply chain attacks will pose a serious
problem for the energy sector from the
part of various software and hardware
providers. Management companies will
be attacked first, then used to penetrate
networks belonging to energy
companies.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 11
Threats to the financial sector
Targeted attacks on the financial sector
CURRENT THREATS
5 groups
posed a real threat to the financial
sector during the period investigated —
Cobalt, Silence, MoneyTaker, Lazarus,
SilentCards
3 out of 5 groups
are Russian speakers (Cobalt, Silence,
and MoneyTaker); they are the only
owners of Trojans that control ATM
dispensers
2 out of 3 groups
that are Russian speakers (Сobalt and
Silence) started mainly attacking banks
outside Russia
SilentCards is a new group that carries
out targeted attacks on banks in Africa.
Despite their poor technical skills
(compared to other groups), they
successfully steal money in this region.
FastCash, a new theft method, was
detected in 2018, though it was first used
in Asia in as early as 2016. The Lazarus
group is behind all attacks of this kind.
Experts observed the following trends
in attack schemes: Silence was the only
threat actor that carried out attacks
through ATMs; Silence and SilentCards
used card processing, while Lazarus used
SWIFT (two successful thefts in India and
Malta amounting to $16 million in total).
Silence stopped using mail-outs, instead
buying them from other hacking groups
(especially TA505).
Each Russian-speaking group carried
out an attack in Russia over the period
investigated. Cobalt attempted to steal
from a company twice, but the theft
did not cause any significant financial
damage. Compared to the previous
period, the average stolen sum in Russia
dropped from $1.8 million to $480,000,
with the total stolen sum amounting
to $1.5 million, i.e. 93% less than in the
previous period.
FORECAST: LARGER GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE OF RUSSIAN-SPEAKING GROUPS
Russian-speaking groups (Silence,
MoneyTaker, and Cobalt) are
likely to continue their expansion
by multiplying their attacks outside
Russia. To withdraw money, they will carry
out attacks on card processing systems
and use Trojans for ATMs. The groups will
shift their focus away from SWIFT.
Lazarus will remain the only group to steal
money through SWIFT and ATM Switch.
The threat actor has previously carried
out successful attacks through ATM
Switch against banks that use software
running on IBM AIX. Such banks will
therefore be the first to catch the threat
group’s attention.
Infrastructure disruption to cover tracks
will be the final stage of successful
attacks.
SilentCards may remain local and focus
on African banks. The group is likely
to expand its list of targets by attacking
other industries. Their main vector will
be blackmail in ransomware attacks.
The Trickbot Trojan has markedly
improved (see section Banking Trojans
for PC) and can now be used in targeted
attacks on banks and for espionage
against government agencies, as was the
case with the Trojan Zeus.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 12
TARGETED ATTACKS ON THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 13
Non-targeted attacks and threats to banking customers
Growth in carding activities due to the spread of JS sniffers
Dumps continue to have the largest
share of the carding market, with a 46%
increase in the number of dumps for sale.
The sale of textual data (card number,
CVV, expiration date) is also on the rise,
with a 19% growth.
The largest bank card data leaks are
related to compromises of US retailers.
The US is far ahead and comes first, with
93% of all cards compromised.
Middle Eastern countries (Kuwait,
Pakistan, the UAE, and Qatar) together
account for 2.38% in this classification.
It is believed that the increase in the
number of compromised cards was
caused by Lazarus attacks in late 2018
and early 2019.
JS sniffers became a point of growth
as regards the volume of textual data.
As at spring 2019, Group-IB detected
38 different JS sniffer families. At the time
of publishing this report, that number has
even grown. There are more JS sniffers
than banking Trojans.
In terms of JS sniffer–related attacks, the
US is first again, with UK banks coming
second. This is mainly due to the attack
on British Airways in late 2018, which
resulted in more than 300,000 bank
cards being compromised.
38% growth
in the total number of
compromised cards
$229 million
fine imposed on British Airways
as a result of a data breach
FORECAST: DECLINE IN PHISHING AND EXPLOSIVE GROWTH IN SOCIAL ENGINEERING
SMS traffic in certain countries
is becoming a common tool for sharing
links to phishing websites. As a result,
leaks of phone number databases and
access to personal mobile operator
accounts, which can be used to send SMS
messages, are becoming more popular.
Moreover, new types of social
engineering techniques are emerging.
For instance, as part of an increasingly
popular scheme, users are asked to
install a remote control tool on their
mobile device, thereby giving the
hackers access to all applications and
data thereon.
Phishing kit developers began devoting
more attention to self-defense. They
blacklist cybersecurity vendors’ subnets
and hosting providers, show phishing
content only from the IP addresses of the
region where their victims are located,
redirect users to legitimate websites, and
check anomalous user agents.
New sophisticated social
engineering methods
Considerably reduced activity of
banking Trojans for PC and Android,
combined with fewer phishing attacks,
has made theft methods using social
engineering the most widespread
threat.
In an effort to attract customers, phishing
kit developers started equipping their kits
with user-friendly management systems.
Now, instead of working with logs via
email, customers can conveniently
manage data via simple web panels.
Financial phishers began using panels
for managing web injects and the autofill
function. Such panels have previously
been used in banking Trojans.
Social engineering comes in many
forms. Schemes in which victims
are prompted to reveal their logins,
passwords, and bank card details and
transfer money via ATMs and mobile
applications are widely known. Threat
actors use various channels to contact
their victims, such as phone calls,
messaging apps, and social media.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 14
Fewer banking Trojans for PC

Trickbot is the only Trojan to have
significantly evolved over the last year:

new module for collecting passwords


from installed applications;

ability to steal RDP, VNC, and
PuTTY data as well as configuration
files from SYSVOL directories
on domain controllers;

Russian-speaking hackers no longer
create banking Trojans for PC. Brazil
has become a new source of this type
of malware. So far, it is used to attack the
local population only.
Owners of old botnets are not expanding
their geographical scope and tend
to attack banking customers in two
or three countries where it is easier for
them to launder stolen money.
There are two groups that still steal
money in Russia using Trojans for PC:
RTM and Buhtrap2. Only the former
shows continued activity (and uses the
Trojan RTM).


fileless attacks and use of Mimikatz;


no module and configuration file
download to disk (Windows 10);


 mail-outs from compromised
computers;


new cookie stealer.


7 Trojans for PC
fell out of use, with no new ones created
by Russian-speaking hackers during the
period investigated
Some experts have singled out the group
Grim Spider. It uses Trickbot for network
reconnaissance purposes to then load
the Ryuk ransomware and demand sums
 exceeding $100,000 for decrypting the
victim’s device.


HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 15

Autofill and fake push notifications in banking Trojans for Android
In the past, money was stolen from bank
accounts mainly by displaying fake
windows where bank card, login, and
password details were to be entered.
Transaction confirmation codes were
obtained by intercepting SMS messages.
The year 2019 saw the appearance
of Trojans that automatically transfer
money via mobile banking apps, i.e. the
autofill feature.
Push notifications were thought
to be a reliable method of delivering onetime codes. Now, however, Trojans use
the Accessibility Service to manipulate
push notifications, copy their text, and
activate certain areas.
The US managed to make the authors
of Android Trojans prohibit the use
of their malware in the States, not just
in Russia and other post-Soviet countries.
The year 2019 saw the appearance of the
most advanced Android Trojans, which
were developed in order to be rented out.
Their price ranges from $800 to $2,000
per month.
Owners of banking botnets began
devoting more attention to self-defense
and sanbox bypassing methods.
15 Trojans
fell out of use; the codes of seven
Trojans were adapted for modern
Android OS; five new Trojans entered
the market
FORECAST: GRADUAL REPLACEMENT OF TROJANS BY JS SNIFFERS AND CHANGES TO METHODS OF SOCIAL
ENGINEERING AND PHISHING DISTRIBUTION
JS sniffers will be the most rapidly
evolving threat; they make attackers
more money than banking Trojans. There
are already more JS sniffers than banking
Trojans for PC and Android. That said, the
threat will mainly affect countries where
the 3D Secure system is not widely used.
POS Trojans will not undergo significant
changes. They will continue to be used
mainly in attacks on retailers in the
US and, to a lesser extent, in Spanishspeaking countries.
Phishing and social engineering will
remain the biggest threat to online
banking customers. There may be a shift
from email to text message as the main
distribution channel for phishing links.
The owners of DDoS botnets built
on numerous infected routers may start
renting them out to hackers who engage
in phishing. Phishing is usually more
profitable than DDoS attacks.
Schemes involving remote support
through remote access tools will shift
from PCs to mobile devices. They will
have one of two goals: to obtain bank
card information from the customer
or to request payment for fake services
(e.g. security checks, removing threats
from devices).
The number of active banking Trojans for
PCs will decrease except in Brazil, where
threats are developing locally. Moreover,
their geographical scope will shrink due
to the integration of security tools and
markedly reduced financial benefits for
attackers.
Currently, the autofill feature
in Android Trojans is implemented for
each malicious program individually.
If a tool for developing a universal
autofill feature appears on the market
(as was the case with Zeus), it may speed
up the development of Android Trojans.
However, this is unlikely to happen within
a year.
HI-TECH CRIME TRENDS 2019/2020 16