Summary
34/36
We began with analyzing “Jian”, the Chinese (APT31 / Zirconium) exploit for CVE-20170005, which was reported by Lockheed Martin’s Computer Incident Response Team. To
our surprise, we found out that this APT31 exploit is in fact a reconstructed version
of an Equation Group exploit called “EpMe”. This means that an Equation Group
exploit was eventually used by a Chinese-affiliated group, probably against American
targets.
This isn’t the first documented case of a Chinese APT using an Equation Group 0-Day.
The first was when APT3 used their own version of EternalSynergy (called UPSynergy),
after acquiring the Equation Group EternalRomance exploit. However, in the UPSynergy
case, the consensus among our group of security researchers as well as in Symantec was
that the Chinese exploit was reconstructed from captured network traffic.
The case of EpMe / Jian is different, as we clearly showed that Jian was constructed from
the actual 32-bits and 64-bits versions of the Equation Group exploit. This means that in
this scenario, the Chinese APT acquired the exploit samples themselves, in all of
their supported versions. Having dated APT31’s samples to 3 years prior to the Shadow
Broker’s “Lost in Translation” leak, our estimate is that these Equation Group exploit
samples could have been acquired by the Chinese APT in one of these ways:
Captured during an Equation Group network operation on a Chinese target.
Captured during an Equation Group operation on a 3rd-party network which was
also monitored by the Chinese APT.
Captured by the Chinese APT during an attack on Equation Group infrastructure.
While reviewing the NtElevation exploits used in Equation Group’s DanderSpritz postexploitation framework, we found 4 Windows LPE exploits. The first two NtElevation
exploits were font vulnerabilities that were previously discussed as part of the Houston
disk (an earlier sample attributed to Equation Group). In addition, EpMe (CVE-20170005) was mentioned and patched when Jian was caught, even if at that point in time the
true origins of it weren’t yet known.
Finally, although EpMo was indeed patched by Microsoft in May 2017, we couldn’t trace
the CVE-ID that was assigned to the patched vulnerability. Not only that, to our
knowledge, our publication is the first to even mention the existence of this Equation
Group exploit, even though it was publicly accessible on GitHub for the last 4 years.
These are our new additions to the attribution map:
EpMe (CVE-2017-0005) – An Equation Group exploit that was cloned by APT31,
thus causing CVE-2017-0005 to be attributed to the latter, instead of to Equation
Group.
EpMo – An additional Equation Group exploit that was never discussed before.
Jian – APT31’s cloned version of EpMe, which was caught-in-the-wild by Lockheed
Martin’s IRT.
35/36
CVE-2019-0803 – Attributed by multiple sources to a “Chinese State-Sponsored
Actor.” We showed that it shares the same exploit loader (and tool API) as APT31’s
Jian.