Malware attacks
Throughout the year, we noted continuous growth in malware attacks. In Q4 2020,
we saw a slowdown in the explosive growth in ransomware attacks from Q3. The
share of ransomware attacks increased by 5 percentage points versus the previous
quarter, to 56 percent. During the year we also saw the active use of spyware in
attacks against individuals.
56%
Ransomware
21%
Banking trojans
24%
RATs
Loaders
Spyware
6%
Miners
24%
24%
45%
Adware
Other
5%
18%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Organizations Individuals
© Positive Technologies
Figure 7. Malware types (percentage of attacks involving malware)
8% 5% 3% 34%
1%
65%
Email
11% Compromise of computers,
servers, and network equipment
in attacks in attacks
Fake updates
on organizations on individuals
11%
Fake updates
Websites
13% 26%
Figure 8. Methods used for malware distribution
Official app stores
Chat and SMS messages
Other
© Positive Technologies
7
In attacks on organizations, the most frequent method used to spread malware (in
30% of cases) was exploitation of vulnerabilities in IT infrastructure and protection
flaws. For example, during Q4 hackers actively exploited an Oracle WebLogic serv
er vulnerability (CVE-2020-14882) that allowed remote code execution, though
a patch was released in early October. One hacker attack was aimed at deploy
ing Cobalt Strike Beacons, which allow persistent remote access to compromised
hosts. This access later allowed attackers to collect data and deploy second-stage
malware. Another wave of attacks involved the distribution of DarkIRC malware.
DarkIRC comes with a multitude of capabilities, including remote access, keylog
ging, DDoS attacks, and bitcoin clipping, and can be spread on networks by brute
forcing credentials to Microsoft SQL Server and RDP, as well as over SMB or via
USB devices. An interesting thing about DarkIRC is that before unpacking, it first
checks if the host is running in a VMware, VirtualBox, VBox, QEMU, or Xen virtual
machine and then stops the infection process if it detects a sandbox environment.
Figure 9. DarkIRC for sale on the darkweb
Social engineering remains an ever-present hazard. In 65 percent of attacks on
organizations, the first stage relied on the human factor. Many such attacks in
volved the Emotet trojan. After a lull, the trojan re-emerged in full force in mid
2020. In Lithuania, for example, hackers used the trojan in attacks against several
municipalities and the National Center for Public Health (NVSC). In other attacks
targeting a broader audience, hackers sent phishing emails that pretended to be
messages from Windows Update, shipping information, resumes, COVID-19 infor
mation, and even invitations to a Halloween party. As usual, the emails contained
malicious Microsoft Word (.doc) attachments that, once opened, try to trick the
user into enabling macros. The main distinguishing feature of this campaign is that
once macros are enabled, the user gets a fake error message about Word having
experienced an error trying to open the file. This put users off their guard, and the
malware can start executing its payload.
8
Just as interesting and as dangerous, the BazarLoader trojan made a splash in Q4.
The trojan is used to obtain remote access to a victim's computer and deploy Ryuk
ransomware. In early October, researchers at cybersecurity firm ProofPoint spotted
a new phishing campaign that capitalized on interest in the health of Donald Trump.
The malicious emails asked victims to download a Google document by clicking an
embedded link. Clicking the link downloaded the BazarLoader executable to the
victim's computer. Mid-October saw a new wave of phishing emails that distributed
BazarLoader using public links to the Basecamp web-based project management
platform. Basecamp allows users to upload all types of files to a project, including
executables, which is convenient for attackers. Cybersecurity firm Cyjax reported
that in addition to malware distribution, hackers can also use Basecamp in phishing
attacks to steal login credentials.