Change of macOS malware
JMTTrading case
While tracking this campaign, we identified more heavily deformed macOS malware. At the time, the attacker called their fake website
and application JMTTrading. Other researchers and security vendors found it too, and published IoCs with abundant technical details.
Malware Hunter Team tweeted about this malicious application, Vitali Kremez published a blog about the Windows version of the
malware, and Object-See published details about the macOS malware. We believe these reports are sufficient to understand the
technical side. Here, we would like to highlight what’s different about this attack.
The actor used GitHub in order to host their malicious applications.
The malware author used Object-C instead of QT framework in their macOS malware.
The malware implemented a simple backdoor function in macOS executable.
The malware encrypted/decrypted with a 16-byte XOR key (X,%`PMk–Jj8s+6=) similar to the previous case.
The Windows version of the malware used ADVobfuscator, a compiled time obfuscator, in order to hide its code.
The post-install script of macOS malware differed significantly from the previous version.
UnionCryptoTrader case
We also identified another macOS targeted attack that took place very recently. The malicious application name in this case is
UnionCryptoTrader. After compiling a threat intelligence report for our customers, one security researcher (@dineshdina04)
discovered an identical case, and Objective-See published a very detailed blog on the macOS malware used in this attack. The
Objective-See blog goes into sufficient detail to explain the malware’s functionality, so we will just summarize the attack:
The post-install script is identical to that used in the JMTTrading case.
The malware author used SWIFT to develop this macOS malware.
The malware author changed the method for collecting information from the infected system.
The malware starts to conduct authentication using auth_signature and auth_timestamp parameters in order to deliver the
second-stage payload more carefully. The malware acquires the current system time and combines it with the
“12GWAPCT1F0I1S14” hardcoded string, and produces an MD5 hash of the combined string. This hash is used as the value of
the auth_signature parameter and the current time is used as the value of the auth_timestamp parameter. The malware
operator can reproduce the auth_signature value based on the auth_timestamp at the C2 server side.
The malware loads the next stage payload without touching the disk.