Manufacturing and industry still under threat
The number of attacks on manufacturing and industrial companies has remained
high since the start of the year: The culprits in Q3 were primarily APT groups (RTM,
TinyScouts) and ransomware operators (Nefilim, Maze, Netwalker, RansomEXX,
Conti, DoppelPaymer). Ransomware accounted for 45 percent of total attacks.
i
12
Malware use
Social engineering
Hacking
Credential compromise
4%
Web attacks
2%
Other
8%
94%
67%
27%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
© Positive Technologies
Figure 15. Attack methods (percentage of attacks on manufacturing and industrial companies)
Nor were manufacturing and industrial companies immune to the trend of inten
sified exploitation of network perimeter vulnerabilities: these attacks more than
doubled, in percentage terms, compared to the prior quarter. However, most of the
incidents (67%) occurred in the old-school way, implying use of email as the main
method of penetration. These attackers include TinyScouts, a new group that tar
gets energy companies, among others. During the first stage of their attack, they
sent phishing messages to employees at different companies. The topics were relat
ed to COVID-19 or else victim-specific. In the group's July campaign, they enclosed
a file with the .lnk extension. When opened, this file launched the utility mshta.exe.
The .exe file performed two roles: for the user, it opened a decoy document, while
for the attackers, it ran a script that checked for TeamViewer, RDP sessions, and do
main login status. What happened next depended on the target: if the company was
of particular interest, the attackers ran spyware to collect information. Otherwise,
ransomware set to work. Note that a similar method, involving a .link file followed
by launch of mshta.exe, is used by the Gamaredon APT group against government
targets. Gamaredon's activity has been monitored by the PT Expert Security Center
for several quarters.
The RTM APT group, too, uses social engineering to deliver malware. During Q3, PT
ESC detected 34 phishing mailings from the group.
Figure 16. Message with malicious archive sent by the RTM APT group
One fifth of attacks in Q3 included spyware or malware for remote administration. In
such cases, attackers are likely eying confidential data.
13
16% 13% 55%
16%
Corporate secrets
Personal data
Credentials
Other
© Positive Technologies
75
50
25
46
32
0
Q3
Figure 17. Data stolen in attacks on manufacturing and industrial companies
Netwalker ransomware did not spare manufacturing and industry. On September 7,
the group attacked K-Electric, the sole electrical supplier in the Pakistani city of
Karachi. Consequences included disruptions to online billing and other services. The
attackers demanded $3.9 million for restoring access and, if not paid within seven
days, threatened to raise the amount to $7.7 million.
Maze performed a successful attack on major Vietnamese steel sheet manufactur-
er Hoa Sen Group. They stole a range of data, including employee records, internal
correspondence, and other sensitive files. To date, 1.64 GB of files (5% of the total
amount stolen) has been put online. The same attackers also struck SK hynix, a
major vendor of RAM and flash memory. They exfiltrated 11 GB of information, in
cluding confidential agreements for sale of NAND flash memory to Apple.