nuclear negotiations.
reports. In addition to Operation Ababil, Iranians
were alleged to have gained access to the unclassified
Navy Marine Corps Intranet, a system used to store
unclassified information and communications, for several months starting in August
2013. [78] In the 2016 edition of an annual Ministry of Interior security assessment, the
German government cited Iran as a new source of cyber espionage against the country,
a disclosure that aligned with reports that the Bundestag had been affected by a malware
operation that targeted visitors of the Israeli newspaper Jerusalem Post . [79]
Overall, however, cases of successful Iranian intrusions into American and European
governmental infrastructure are rare, particularly highly secured, classified networks.
Government agencies are typically hardened beyond the capability of Iranian threat actors to penetrate them. Consequently, Iranians have sought softer U.S. targets, launching
spearphishing attempts on the personal email and social media accounts of U.S. government employees. While personal accounts are less likely to contain classified government
information, they are also less likely to be properly secured, and often contain useful
information such as private material and traces of professional communications.
For example, Iranians attempted to compromise the personal email accounts of members of the American team during the nuclear negotiations. [80] Similarly, after the 2016
U.S. presidential election, Iranian threat actors focused on former Obama staff, Republican members of Congress, supporters of Donald Trump’s campaign, conservative
media organizations, and nominees for political appointments in an apparent attempt
to acquire intelligence on the new administration. [81] More recently these spearphishing
campaigns have targeted critics of Iran in the U.S. Congress while new sanctions have
been under consideration.
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE    31
Tehran tends to target the foreign government personnel and agencies that focus on Iran,
namely those in the United States or Europe who work on Iran policy or within Persianlanguage media, including Voice of America television and Radio Farda. Iranian threat
actors have used the compromised accounts of prominent Iranian-Americans, international businessmen, and other dual nationals arrested by the IRGC to impersonate them
and target the private email accounts of U.S. State Department personnel connected to
Iran policy.
In contrast to the release of private emails by WikiLeaks during the 2016 U.S. election, which leveraged stolen emails for information warfare, Tehran’s compromise of
State Department employees’ emails did not lead to visible sabotage or the disclosure of
embarrassing material. While there have been dozens of attempts to target a wide array of
American politicians and government employees, these intrusions were mostly opportunistic attempts that did not appear to escalate into more sophisticated operations.
Following the 2015 nuclear agreement, the incidence of covert action and retaliatory attacks between Washington and Tehran decreased. Reports of disruptive cyber operations
against U.S. and Iranian infrastructure diminished, as Tehran focused more on domestic
political opponents and regional adversaries, such as Israel and Saudi Arabia. Just as Operation Olympic Games provided Washington the ability to coerce Iran without direct
military intervention, Tehran now engages in offensive cyber operations to project its
regional power.