~~Innovation-driven opportunity in an~~ ~~exponentially larger attack landscape~~
MICHAL BRAVERMAN-BLUMENSTYK, CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, CLOUD AND AI SECURITY
In the past year, we have observed an abundance of incidents driving both physical and digital disruption of
operations for many organizations. These incidents preyed at times on the physical realm, such as disruption of
production lines and energy substations, and in other cases, they were conducted entirely in the digital realm,
such as via a ransomware campaign.
Looking at the attack surfaces that were exploited
provides an additional perspective: from legacy
operational technology (OT) equipment to brand
new Internet of Things (IoT) devices; from seemingly
ordinary cloud-migration projects to 5G IoT-related
endeavors; and from physical supply chain to digital
supply chain. All of these are playing an increasing role
as fertile attack surfaces. These are all topics we will
elaborate on in this chapter.
Supply chain integrity
Supply chains, both physical and digital, have an
explicit reliance on trust, and adversaries have taken
notice. Over the last decade, successful organizations
have been able to meet the demands of scale,
efficiency, and speed by building expansive, and often
complex, ecosystems to deliver value to stakeholders.
Security adversaries today view these systems as
targets for exploitation, as witnessed recently in
the highly visible and impactful SolarWinds and
Kaseya attacks. While threats and attacks continue to
intensify, supply chain complexity increases the costs
of defending and the likelihood that an exposure can
produce a significant return for an adversary.
IoT Security
IoT security is a geometrically expanding frontier with
innovation-driven opportunity and an exponentially
larger attack landscape. The adoption of IoT and the
huge acceleration in remote services, both at home
and in the workplace since the onset of the COVID-19
pandemic, increases the likelihood of risk materializing.
This is a trend that will continue as technologies like
5G and innovative IoT applications become more
ubiquitous.
OT Security
OT devices, such as industrial control, hospital
monitoring, or water management systems, represent
the public infrastructure that many societies have
come to depend on for decades. Many are lagging
in adopting and leveraging modern security
standards. As evidenced by recent attacks on water,
transportation, and energy utilities, disruption in these
areas have profound and broad impact
The chapter includes discussions about how
organizations can understand and improve their IoT,
OT, and supply chain security posture. We share in
these discussions our data-driven perspectives related
to the IoT and OT threat landscape, research findings
by the Azure Defender for IoT team, global initiatives
such as the Global Cyber Alliance, and more.
TOC  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME  NATION STATE THREATS SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction Managing supplier ecosystem risk How Microsoft thinks about supply chain IoT and OT threat landscape 7 properties of secured devices Applying Zero Trust to IoT IoT and sustainability IoT policy