Loader Web Shell
On some occasions, TG1021 deployed a web shell on IIS servers for a short period of time. In most cases, these web
shells were deleted shortly after they were dropped. The web shell functionality is almost identical to the Reflective
Loader DLL, as it used to load binaries and initialize a malware instance from within it, using an almost identical
decryption and decoding mechanism:


The first 2 bytes are used in the decryption process as XOR keys.


Bytes 2-32 represent an array of strings later used for invocation, separated by “|”.


All bytes starting from 32 are the malicious binary payload.


15
Figure 12 : The NodeIISWeb Loader & Controller web shell
The first object in the string array “keys” is placed in the web application HTTP cache under the value
“CAPCACHE__CAPCACHE”. When the NodeIISWeb malware instance is initialized without arguments, it looks for
the value stored in this key to be used as the “HOOK_KEY”.
Figure 13 : The IISNode class constructor
After initialization, a pointer to the malware instance is saved in the web application HTTP cache under the key
“CAPCACHE”. When the attacker revisits the specific webpage, the object’s “ToString” method is invoked which
in turn initiates the C2 logic of the malware. Without knowing what object is stored in the cache under the key
“CAPCACHE”, it might seem as a legitimate comparison between two string objects, when really the “ToString”
16
method triggers the malware commands.
In a few cases the threat actor placed the controller in specific locations leveraging default IIS webpage naming.
The threat actor would locate a directory in the web application that did not contain a default webpage file and
place the controller in that directory using one of the default document namings. When the threat actor would
request the directory via HTTP without requesting a specific resource, the IIS server would serve the first resource
matching one of the default values.
Figure 14 : Default IIS configuration for “defaultDocument” files