The West
United States
Analysts believe that the U.S. has conducted the most highly engineered cyber attacks to date,
including Stuxnet, [74] Duqu, Flame, and Gauss. [75] This family of malware is unparalleled in its complexity
and targeting. Stuxnet in particular was developed with a singular goal (to disrupt Iranian nuclear
enrichment) that was both narrowly focused and capable of yielding strategic gains in the international
arena. In contrast to computer worms such as Slammer and Code Red, Stuxnet did not seek to
compromise as many computers as possible, but as few as possible. Even more amazing, its malicious
behavior was concealed under a veneer of apparently legitimate operational data—but ultimately,
the malware destroyed Iranian centrifuges.
This family of malware was exquisitely designed. For example, its payload can arrive at its destination
encrypted—and become decrypted and installed only on a target device. This helps the malware to
evade the prying eyes of cyber defenders, making discovering and reverse engineering the malware
much more difficult.
Ironically, this family of malware could be a paragon of over-engineering. For example, it not only
uses multiple zero-day exploits, but also world-first computational achievements such as a forced
cryptographic “hash collision.” [76] In the case of Iran (which is currently subject to a trade embargo
that restricts its acquisition of high technology), it is doubtful whether Iranian software is up-to-date or
properly configured. So the authors of Stuxnet could likely have used more conventional computer
exploits and still succeeded.
70 Pfeffer, A. (15 Jun 2009) “Israel suffered massive cyber attack during Gaza offensive,” Haaretz .
71 Simonite, T. (31 Aug 2012) “Bungling Cyber Spy Stalks Iran,” MIT Technology Review .
72 Zetter, K. (17 Jul 2012) “Mahdi, the Messiah, Found Infecting Systems in Iran, Israel,” WIRED .
73 Yagna, Y. (26 May 2013) “Ex-General denies statements regarding Syrian cyber attack,” Haaretz .
74 Sanger, D. Confront and Conceal . (New York: 2012) pp. 188-225.
75 Boldizsár Bencsáth. “Duqu, Flame, Gauss: Followers of Stuxnet,” BME CrySyS Lab, RSA 2012.
76 Goodin, Dan (7 Jun 2012) “Crypto breakthrough shows Flame was designed by world-class scientists,” Ars Technica .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 17
|Reconnaissance|Likely HUMINT Sources|
|---|---|
|Weaponization|Auto Infected Removable Media|
|Delivery|USB Removable Media|
|Exploitation|Social Engineering USB Media Use|
|Installation|Well-Crafted, Targeted (Crypto-Keyed)Worm (No Operator Required; Auto-LateralMovement)|
|Command andControl (C2)|Strategic One-Time Use C2 Nodes;Full SSL Crypto|
|Actions on Objectives|Intelligence Gathering / Subtle SystemDisruption (Middle East Focused)|
|TTP Exemplars|Stuxnet, Flame, Duqu, Gauss|
Table 4: Characteristics
of Western cyber attacks
One possible telling aspect of U.S. cyber attacks: they require such a high level of financial investment,
technical sophistication, and legal oversight that they will stand out from the crowd. On the last point,
Richard Clarke, who served three U.S. Presidents as a senior counterterrorism official, argued that Stuxnet
was a U.S. operation because “it very much had the feel to it of having been written by or governed
by a team of Washington lawyers.” [77] Finally, the amount of work involved in these operations suggests
the participation of an enormous defense contractor base, with different companies specializing in
particular aspects of a large and complex undertaking.
On the downside (and similar to the Israeli case), all advanced industrial economies are vulnerable
to cyber counterattack. In 2008, a CIA official informed a conference of critical infrastructure providers
that unknown cybercriminals, on multiple occasions, had been able to disrupt the power supply in
various foreign cities. [78] In the military domain, Iraqi insurgents used $26 off-the-shelf software to intercept
live video feeds from U.S. Predator drones, likely giving them the ability to monitor and evade U.S.
military operations. [79] In the economic sphere, the U.S.-based International Monetary Fund (IMF) fell
victim to a phishing attack in 2011 that was described as a “very major breach.” [80]
Thus, while cyber attacks are relatively a new phenomenon, they represent a growing national security
challenge. As part of a broader effort to mitigate the threat, President Obama signed a directive in
2013 that the U.S. should aid allies who come under foreign cyber attack. [81]
77 Rosenbaum, R. (Apr 2012) “Richard Clarke on Who Was Behind the Stuxnet Attack,” Smithsonian .
78 Nakashima, E. & Mufson, S. (19 Jan 2008) “Hackers Have Attacked Foreign Utilities, CIA Analyst Says,” Washington Post .
79 Gorman, S., Dreazen, Y. & Cole, A. (17 Dec 2009) “Insurgents Hack U.S. Drones,” Wall Street Journal .
80 Sanger, D. & Markoff, J. (11 Jun 2011) “I.M.F. Reports Cyberattack Led to ‘Very Major Breach’,” New York Times .
81 Shanker, T. & Sanger, D. (8 Jun 2013) “U.S. Helps Allies Trying to Battle Iranian Hackers,” New York Times .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 18
Europe
No prominent examples have been discovered of the European Union (EU) or the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) conducting their own offensive cyber attacks. On the contrary, their leaders have
so far foresworn them. [82] But many examples reveal European networks getting hacked from other parts
of the world, particularly China and Russia.
Within government, cyber attacks on the British Foreign Ministry evaded network defenses in 2010 by
pretending to come from the White House. [83] In 2011, German Police found that servers used to locate
serious criminals and terrorism suspects had been penetrated, initially via a phishing attack. [84] Also in 2011,
European Commission officials were targeted at an Internet Governance Forum (IGF) in Azerbaijan. [85]
In the military sphere, in 2009, French Navy planes were grounded following an infection by the
Conficker worm. [86] In 2012, the UK admitted that cybercriminals had penetrated its classified Ministry of
Defense networks. [87]
In business, the European Union’s carbon trading market was breached in 2011, resulting in the theft
of more than $7 million in credits, forcing the market to shut down temporarily. [88] In 2012, the European
Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS) and German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp fell victim to
major attacks by Chinese cybercriminals. [89]
Security professionals should particularly be on the lookout for APT cyber threats just before and during
international negotiations. In 2011 alone, the European Commission complained of widespread hacking
before an EU summit, [90] the French government was compromised prior to a G-20 meeting, [91] and at
least 10 Norwegian defense and energy companies were breached during large-scale contract
negotiations, via phishing that was specifically tailored to each company. [92]
82 Leyden, J. (6 June 2012) “Relax hackers! NATO has no cyber-attack plans—top brass,” The Register .
83 Arthur, C. (5 Feb 2011) “William Hague reveals hacker attack on Foreign Office in call for cyber rules,” The Observer .
84 “Hackers infiltrate German police and customs service computers,” (18 July 2011) Infosecurity Magazine .
85 Satter, R. (10 Nov 2012) “European Commission Officials Hacked At Internet Governance Forum,” Huffington Post .
86 Willsher, K. (7 Feb 2009) “French fighter planes grounded by computer virus,” The Telegraph .
87 Hopkins, N. (3 May 2012) “Hackers have breached top secret MoD systems, cyber-security chief admits,” The Guardian .
88 Krukowska, E. & Carr, M. (20 Jan 2011), “EU Carbon Trading Declines After Alleged Hacking Suspends Spot Market,” Bloomberg.
89 Rochford, O. (24 Feb 2013) “European Space, Industrial Firms Breached in Cyber Attacks: Report,” Security Week .
90 “’Serious’ cyber attack on EU bodies before summit,” (23 Mar 2011) BBC.
91 Charette, R. (8 Mar 2011) “’Spectacular’ Cyber Attack Gains Access to France’s G20 Files,” IEEE Spectrum .
92 Albanesius, C. (18 Nov 2011) “Norway Cyber Attack Targets Country’s Oil, Gas Systems,” PCMag .
FireEye, Inc. World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 19