Coverage
Ways our customers can detect and block this threat are listed below.
Cisco Secure Endpoint (formerly AMP for Endpoints) is ideally suited to prevent the
execution of the malware detailed in this post. Try Secure Endpoint for free here.
Cisco Secure Email (formerly Cisco Email Security) can block malicious emails sent by
threat actors as part of their campaign. You can try Secure Email for free here.
Cisco Secure Firewall (formerly Next-Generation Firewall and Firepower NGFW)
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2022/05/bitter-apt-adds-bangladesh-to-their.html 17/20
5/19/22, 12:15 PM Cisco Talos Intelligence Group - Comprehensive Threat Intelligence: Bitter APT adds Bangladesh to their targets
appliances such as Threat Defense Virtual, Adaptive Security Appliance and Meraki MX
can detect malicious activity associated with this threat.
Cisco Secure Network/Cloud Analytics (Stealthwatch/Stealthwatch Cloud) analyzes
network traffic automatically and alerts users of potentially unwanted activity on every
connected device.
Cisco Secure Malware Analytics (Threat Grid) identifies malicious binaries and builds
protection into all Cisco Secure products.
Umbrella, Cisco's secure internet gateway (SIG), blocks users from connecting to
malicious domains, IPs and URLs, whether users are on or off the corporate network.
Sign up for a free trial of Umbrella here.
Cisco Secure Web Appliance (formerly Web Security Appliance) automatically blocks
potentially dangerous sites and tests suspicious sites before users access them.
Additional protections with context to your specific environment and threat data are
available from the Firewall Management Center.
Cisco Duo provides multi-factor authentication for users to ensure only those authorized
are accessing your network.
The following ClamAV signatures have been released to detect this threat:
Ole2.Exploit.ZxxZDownloader-9944376-0
Win.Downloader.ZxxZ-9944378-0
Open-source Snort Subscriber Rule Set customers can stay up to date by downloading the
latest rule pack available for purchase on Snort.org.
Snort SIDs for this threat are 59736 and 300132.