Introduction
On the 15 [th] of September 2019, we have published a report [1] about a sharp increase in Charming Kitten
attacks against researchers from the US, Middle East, and France, focusing on Iranian academic
researchers, Iranian dissidents in the US. In our last report, we exposed a new cyber espionage
campaign that was conducted in July 2019. Since then, we observed another wave of these attacks,
leveraging new impersonating vectors and IOCs.
Until these days, Iran was not known as a country who tends to interfere in elections around the world.
From a historical perspective, this type of cyber activities had been attributed mainly to the Russian
APT groups such as APT28 (known as Fancy Bear). The group is infamous for hacking American
Democratic National Committee emails and targeting German and French campaign members, in an
attempt to circumvent the elections in the US, Germany and France. Microsoft’s October
announcement exposes, for first time, that Charming Kitten, an Iranian APT group, plays a role in
the domain of cyber-attacks for the purpose of interfering with democratic procedures.
On 4 [th] of October 2019 [2], Microsoft has announced that Phosphorus (known as Charming Kitten)
attempted to attack email accounts that are associated with the following targets: U.S. presidential
campaign, current and former U.S. government officials, journalists covering global politics, and
prominent Iranians living outside Iran. These spear-phishing attacks were conducted by Charming
Kitten in August and September. We evaluate in a medium-high level of confidence, that
Microsoft’s discovery and our findings in our previous and existing reports is a congruent
operation, based on the following issues:

Same victim profiles – In both cases, the victims were individuals of interest to Iran in the

fields of academic research, human rights, opposition to the Islamic Republic of Iran's regime
(such as NIAC) and journalists. Although the congruent is not exactly similar, our sample is
mainly based on Israeli victims.

Time overlapping – In our latest report, we mentioned that we have observed an escalation

of the attacks in July-August 2019. In their announcement, Microsoft mentioned that the
attacks occurred on ‘In a 30-day period between August and September’.

Similar attack vectors – In both cases, Charming Kitten used similar attack vectors which

are:
a. Password recovery impersonation of the secondary email belonging to the victims
in both cases.
b. Both attack vectors used spear-phishing emails in order to target Microsoft, Google
and Yahoo services.
c. In our research, we identified a spear-phishing attack via SMS messages, indicating
that Charming Kitten gathers phone numbers of the relevant victim. Microsoft found
that Charming Kitten gathers phone numbers for password recovery and two-factor
authentications of the relevant victims to gain control to their email accounts.
In this report, we uncovered four new spear-phishing methods used by this group, alongside with new
indicators of this operation.
1 https://www.clearskysec.com/the-kittens-are-back-in-town/
2 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2019/10/04/recent-cyberattacks-require-us-all-to-be-vigilant/
© 2019 All rights reserved to ClearSky Security Ltd.
TLP: WHITE - Subject to standard copyright rules, information may be distributed freely, without restriction
www.clearskysec.com - info@clearskysec.com
Page 3 of 19