~~Malicious~~ ~~domains~~
Any domain used in the pursuit of cybercrime can
be considered malicious. Malicious domains can
be legitimate sites which have been compromised
to enable criminals to host malicious content on
subdomains, or they can be entirely fraudulent
infrastructure set up for the commission of a crime.
Cybercriminals use malicious domains for three
primary functions: information transmission, location
obfuscation, and building resiliency against those
seeking to interfere with their criminal activities.
Domains are used for data exfiltration, controlling
ransomware communication, hosting phishing
pages, and providing control to malware. They
are also used as email domains to create visually
identical imposter email aliases for deception.
Fraudulent domains can use trademarks to deceive
customers or provide a platform for fraud, such as
fraudulent technical support sites.
Domain proliferation and
threat mitigation
The number of domains available on the internet
has mushroomed over the past several years. This
includes country code top-level domains (cTLDs)
such as .uk, .ca, and .cn; generic top-level domains
(gTLDs) such as .com, .net, and org; and over 1,200
new gTLDs that were introduced into the Domain
Name System (DNS) in 2013. Due to the sheer
number of top-level domains, and the growing
ecosystem of domain name registries, domain
registrars, and domain registration service providers,
mitigating cyber threats from malicious domains
has been further complicated. Uniformity in cyber
threat mitigation across the ecosystem is critical.
There is movement in this direction as evidenced
by recent language incorporated into the Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
(ICANN) agreements with registries, which includes
terms of use that define and prohibit illegal activity,
and a requirement for registries to develop their
own anti-abuse policy and monitor and address
abusive activity.
Domains can be a mechanism to build resiliency
into the infrastructure
Cybercriminals are now routinely adding domain
generating algorithms (DGAs) to their malware,
providing a fallback mechanism for when hard
coded malicious domains are seized by law
enforcement, for example. To utilize DGAs, malicious
software includes code to generate lists of domains
built using random characters or strings that change
based on the day, time, and year. For example,
on Friday, June 4, 2022, the DGA might generate
three domains, such as ahu3rrfsirraqrty.com,
hyrssgu5oqr4cetc.com, and wkcclsoqqpcaty.com,
and the malware would attempt to contact those
domains in that order. The use of DGAs increases
the cost and complexity of disrupting cybercriminal
communications infrastructure, requiring disruptors
to monitor hundreds of thousands of potentially
malicious domains, whereas the cybercriminal needs
only one of them.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
38
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Disrupting malicious domain
infrastructure
Disrupting domains on Microsoft-hosted services
Cybercriminals are now increasingly abusing
Microsoft and third-party clouds as well as the
services information workers and consumers use for
day-to-day collaboration (such as email). Microsoft
takes numerous steps to reduce cloud hosting
abuse. We proactively detect abuse of the Microsoft
cloud at the hosting source and neutralize it before
attacks start or scale; we act on detections in our
services (as in Office 365 email) and route this
knowledge to internal services that can neutralize
the threat; we act on customer and third-party
reports; and we notify third-party industry partners
of abuse on their cloud, detected by using our
security services, so they can act to neutralize it
at their hosting source. In the three-month period
between May and July 2021, we disabled roughly
15,850 phishing sites hosted on Azure. We closely
monitor abuse and evaluate new ways to detect and
neutralize hosting of malicious sites
Note 23 15 U.S.C. §§ 1125(a)-(c)
Blockchain domains are an emerging
threat outside of regulation.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
The next big threat: “Forever”
(blockchain) domains
Blockchain domains are an emerging threat outside
of regulation. Over the last two years, the adaptation
of blockchain technology has skyrocketed across
many business verticals. Real-life applications of
blockchain technology range from supply chain
management, identity management, real estate
contracts, and domain infrastructure. In recent
years, we have observed blockchain domains
integrated into cybercriminal infrastructure and
operations. We first observed this on a large scale
when investigating the Necurs botnet that reigned
terror worldwide for years with its ability to send
malicious spam, often with ransomware payloads.
Necurs contained a robust backup system, which
incorporated a DGA. In one of its DGA versions,
Necurs produced 2,048 new domains from 43
different TLDs approximately every 30 days,
including the blockchain domain TLD “.bit.”
Disrupting third-party-hosted domains through
legal action
Given that cybercriminals are increasingly deploying
private technical infrastructure, including malicious
domains, to carry out a wide range of cybercrime,
it is incumbent on organizations and individuals
to establish the necessary legal and technical
capabilities to disrupt this infrastructure through
legal actions.
In recent years, the private sector has used a variety
of legal theories to pursue disruption through
civil actions in federal court. Criminal statutes
directed at hacking and unlawful access frequently
provide a civil cause of action to target malicious
infrastructure. In particular, the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act (CFAA), the Wiretap Act, and the Stored
Communications Act are frequently asserted legal
theories. Very frequently trademark theories under
the Lanham Act [ Note 23 ] are asserted as cybercriminals
leverage trusted brands to deceive victims. In many
cases, infringing domains provide the critical part of
malicious technical infrastructure and often include
wholesale counterfeit reproduction of legitimate
content to confuse victims and advance criminal
schemes.
Pursuing the appropriate remedy is an essential
component of an effectively disruptive legal action.
A well-crafted injunction that relies on the broad
equitable authority of federal courts enables
plaintiffs to obtain flexible court orders permitting
them to exercise control over the cybercrime
infrastructure. To obtain such relief, plaintiffs
frequently invoke statutes that support seizure of
physical devices, computers, and servers used for
criminal purposes. Malicious domains engaged in
criminal activity can also be subject to seizure under
various federal statutes and equitable theories. In
several civil cases, federal courts have granted this
sort of injunction for violations of the CFAA, the
Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Lanham
Act, and common law claims. These legal claims
also support court orders that direct transfer or
disablement of domains and/or IP addresses. In this
scenario, courts grant the transfer or disablement
of malicious infrastructure to a private plaintiff’s
control, and away from the control of defendants,
which effectively disrupts the technical capability of
cybercriminals to launch attacks and inflict harm.
39
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Unlike traditional domains that are purchased
through internet registrars operating through
the ICANN-regulated DNS system, blockchain
domains are not governed by any centralized body,
limiting the opportunity for abuse reporting and
enforcement disruptions.
Traditionally, blockchain domain purchases are
made through a crypto wallet with cryptocurrency
from a blockchain DNS provider. Crypto wallets
utilize asymmetric encryption, which involves both a
private and public key for the blockchain transaction.
After the transaction has been executed, the domain
name, domain IP, and transaction hash are recorded
into the blockchain. Moving forward, the only entity
that can make changes to the IP recorded on the
blockchain is the person with the wallet and private
key who made the initial transaction to purchase the
domain.
Blockchain domains work differently and pose
challenges from both a utilization and disruption
standpoint. Blockchain domains function either
through software/browser plug-in or proxy
resolution services. The challenge for cybercriminals
with respect to blockchain domains is getting the
most updated IP address from the blockchain to the
computer trying to resolve the blockchain domain to
an IP address. Because blockchain domains operate
outside the normal DNS channels, malware authors
must include additional resolution instructions
for infected victims. These instructions are usually
hard-coded into the malware and point the infected
system to a blockchain proxy resolution service IP.
Over the years, there have been several projects
on the internet to operate free unregulated DNS
and support the resolution of blockchain domains.
Most recently, the OpenNic project, which operates
under the mission statement of “DNS neutrality and
provide uncensored DNS access,” took on the task
of resolving “.bit” crypto domains. Several years into
the project, because of reported widespread abuse
of “.bit” domains, the OpenNic project decided to
stop resolving “.bit” domains. [ Note 24]
Big threats using blockchain domains
The threat landscape of criminal infrastructure
is constantly shifting to avoid detection and
disruption. Within the past year, some of the bigger
threat actors on the internet have started utilizing
blockchain domains as part of their infrastructure.
Trickbot, the notorious banking trojan which has
evolved its business model into providing access
to high-value targets in the ransomware space,
started using “.bazar” domains provided by
Emercoin blockchain DNS. The more recent threat,
Bazarloader, which has connections to Trickbot,
started deploying a unique version of its DGA
that uses “.bazar” domains. This trend of threats
leveraging blockchain domains as infrastructure
with the means to create an undisputable criminal
network should be taken seriously.
Investigating blockchain domains provides a unique
challenge because there is no central WHOIS
registration database tracking who registered the
domain and when. Fortunately, some blockchain
DNS providers like Emercoin have provided access
to a block explorer tool, [ Note 25 ] which enables a search for
domain names, transaction hashes, and other values
that might be stored in the blockchain. The Emercoin
blockchain is pseudo-anonymous but can reveal
some interesting information about a blockchain
domain, such as IP addresses and transaction dates.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
Note 24 https://www.namecoin.org/2019/07/30/opennic-does-right-thing-shuts-down-centralized-inproxy.html Note 25 https://explorer1.emercoin.com/nvs
40
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning
Countering blockchain domains might not be as
difficult as you think
The weakness in blockchain domains is the need
for third-party proxy services or browser plug-ins
to resolve blockchain domains to an IP. Disabling or
blocking the blockchain proxy resolution services
and disabling browser plug-ins will disable the
ability for blockchain domain resolution. Many threat
intelligence vendors provide malicious URL feeds,
which sometimes include blockchain resolution
proxies or the blockchain domain itself.
Blockchain domains have become a preferred choice for cybercrime infrastructure
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | October 2021
41
TOC  INTRODUCTION THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS  SUPPLY CHAIN, IOT, AND OT SECURITY  HYBRID WORKFORCE SECURITY  DISINFORMATION  ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS  TEAMS
Introduction The cybercrime economy and services Ransomware and extortion Phishing and other malicious email Malware Malicious domains Adversarial machine learning