2. Malicious VHD
In late December 2019, we detected another CobInt loader used by Cobalt. The loader container was unusual. It was a virtual hard disk (VHD),
presumably distributed by email.
The VHD format was originally developed by Connectix for their Virtual PC product. Microsoft acquired the product in 2003 and renamed it
Microsoft Virtual PC. In 2005, the format became available to the public. Microsoft started using the VHD format in Hyper-V, the hypervisorbased virtualization technology. A VHD file may contain anything found on a physical hard drive, such as disk partitions and a file system with
folders and files.
Windows 7 and newer systems include the ability to manually mount VHD files, such as via the MMC console. Starting with Windows 8, a user can
mount a VHD by simply double-clicking the file. A mounted VHD disk image appears to Windows just like a normal hard disk.
In September 2019, the CERT/CC Blog published an article about the danger of VHD files and their possible use as an attack vector. The
researcher Will Dorman showed that neither antivirus software nor the Mark of the Web alerts users about the potential harm of the contents of a
VHD file downloaded from the Internet. Dorman created a malicious VHD container with EICAR inside and uploaded the result to VirusTotal. The
malware was not detected by any antivirus engines. A VHD file is critical for operation of Hyper-V virtual machines. If this file is damaged or
blocked, the virtual machine will not run. This may explain the rarity, or even absence, of antivirus detection. In documentation, Microsoft
recommends excluding VHD files from antivirus scanning (as automatically is the case in Windows Defender). Otherwise, Hyper-V is susceptible
to issues.
It is possible that Cobalt used the findings of this research for their own purposes. Their VHD file was also not detected by any antivirus software
when it first appeared on VirusTotal. Half a year later, the file was detected by just one antivirus engine, which is still very low.
Figure 9. Cobalt VHD detection level at the moment of attack
The VHD contains two CobInt files. One file has two invalid Google certificates appended to it in order to reduce the odds of detection.
Since VHD is in essence a container with a file system, one can search for artifacts inside
VHD files. For example, we found an image with text of a fake HSBC antifraud message in
the unallocated space of a VHD file.
Figure 10. Certificates appended to a CobInt file
Figure 11. Image in unallocated space of a VHD file
The attackers may have inadvertently left the artifact when reallocating space in the container: the same image was used as the CobInt icon and
stored in the group's resources.