5.6 Threat Focus Cells: The operational level
Under this architecture, the main operational unit
would be the Threat Focus Cells. These cells
would be temporary trust groups consisting of
both public- and private-sector organizations and
they would focus on discreet cybercrime targets
or issues. Each cell would be sponsored and
supported by the Permanent Node best suited for
the task. The Threat Focus Cells should be able to
deliver operational outcomes faster than traditional
law enforcement approaches — potentially in as
little as 90 to 180 days. Each cell would be in
“sprint” mode, reminiscent of the agile software
development approach, and it would disband upon
completion. While cell structures and processes
must be sufficiently flexible to accommodate
the varying needs of different collaborations,
consistency in a few key elements would support
efficiency and interoperability:
Leadership: Ideally, each Threat Focus Cell would
be led jointly by a private-sector participant, a
law enforcement participant and a designated
representative of the sponsoring Permanent
Node. The first two co-leads should be subject
matter experts and serve as the collaboration’s
driving force. The third co-chair would oversee
the collaboration’s administrative and supporting
functions, such as systems access, logistics and
reports, and would contribute on the substance.
Partnership against Cybercrime 25
Composition: Effective operations require the
participation of the right organizations, or they will not
achieve the desired scope and scale. At the same
time, too many participants can render the activity
unwieldy or erode trust. Therefore, Threat Focus
Cells would typically include between 10 and 15
individual participants, based on their organizations’
willingness, resources and capabilities to contribute
to the collaborative efforts. Private-sector participants
would typically represent organizations that can
act to enhance cybersecurity on behalf of large
constituencies, that have unique access to relevant
cybersecurity information and threat intelligence, or
that can contribute on an ecosystem-wide basis.
Specialists not affiliated with these organizations
but possessing needed subject matter expertise
could also be invited. Law enforcement members
would typically represent national-level agencies with
pending investigations into the cybercrime issues
being considered. Other government participants
could come from network defence or sector-specific
agencies, depending on the target and the nature of
the contemplated operations.
Goals: All participants would need to agree on
the Threat Focus Cell’s desired outcomes. The
goals, priorities and outcomes for a cell should
not be driven by any single entity. In many cases,
the goal would be a culminating operation, which
could include an infrastructure takedown, public