Scanning for new targets
One of the main purposes of the server we analyzed is to automate the process of finding new victims that can be marked as “vulnerable.”
This is done by exhaustively scanning and probing a pre-determined pool of IP addresses contained in a range. The server-side application
has four main components, as follows:
a python script ( gen_ip.py ) that generates random IPs from a certain class
a database ( shodb ) for centralizing all the data
the scan bots that probe and screen potential victims
a Django ( sho ) application for bot administration and reporting.
Rather than taking a “shotgun” approach, the APT28 victims are hand-picked. The script has a hard-coded list of IP classes; it iterates
through these subnets and generates a list of random IPs within the range. If the operators scanned all IPs within the range, it would
increase the chances of the attacked party noticing their systems are actively probed from the outside. After the random generation
process completes, these IPs are added to the database. Each IP address is then given a priority level.
At the time of writing, the database contains the 58,624 IPs related to the incident described in Appendix 1. All these IP addresses have the
same priority level, set to 1.
The scanning bots are individual systems, all situated in different networks. We presume this was a necessary approach to make the
scanning process look organic. If a single IP or a set of IPs from the same network would scan entire subnets, it would raise suspicions or
trip intrusion detection systems and their activity would likely be interrupted.
To get their scan jobs, each bot would authenticate to the server via cookies. Upon successfully authenticating, the scan bot receives a
list of maximum 16 IPs per request. For each IP, it will scan certain ports using the nmap tool (Appendix 1). If it finds open ports, it then
contacts the server and the information retrieved by nmap is saved in the database. Subsequently, the respective IP address is marked as
vulnerable. The process is described in the figure below (Figure 3):
Figure 3
[6]
White Paper
Figure 4
The scan bots are geographically distributed as follows: 3 in the United States, 3 in United Kingdom and 3 in Bulgaria (Figure 5):
Figure 5
More information is provided in Appendix 2.