OTHER ADVERSARIES _
VIETNAM
In late 2018, Vietnam-based OCEAN BUFFALO was implicated in intrusion activity
targeting the automotive manufacturing sector. This departure from OCEAN
BUFFALO’s target scope of geopolitical intelligence gathering and reconnaissance
indicated that Vietnam also has an economic espionage program. Since this time,
unconfirmed third-party reporting released details of suspected OCEAN BUFFALO
intrusions against automotive sector entities in Germany and South Korea beginning
in Spring 2019. Such targeting coincided with 2019 initiatives from the Vietnam
Ministry of Industry and Trade designed to support domestic auto projects. At
the same time, Vietnamese authorities announced the goal for its auto industry
to produce 35% to 40% of domestic auto components by 2020, an increase from
10%. In March 2019, Vietnam also announced its first made-in-Vietnam automobile,
produced by VinFast.
CrowdStrike Intelligence has assessed that the Vietnam Cyberspace Operations
Command (Command 86), which was established in January 2018, likely represents
the country’s premier entity for computer network operations. This assessment
carries moderate confidence, as it is based on open-source reporting and brief
statements made by Vietnamese officials. Notably, while the components that make
up Command 86 are under the direct administration of Vietnam’s Ministry of National
Defense (MND), statements from a March 2018 military conference characterized
Command 86 as an affiliate of the MND and revealed that its Communist Party of
Vietnam (CPV) organization reports directly to the Central Military Commission
(CMC), which oversees the MND.
New missions for this organization began in April 2018, a few months prior
to when OCEAN BUFFALO operations against the automotive industry were
observed. Additionally, Command 86’s predecessor organization, the General Staff
Department’s Information Technology Department, was founded in 2011, less than a
year before the first OCEAN BUFFALO activity was observed. As new information
comes to light showing potential new overlaps between Command 86 and OCEAN
BUFFALO, these factors will be taken into account in further considerations of the
potential connection between the two.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020
CONCLUSION
RANSOMWARE
Criminally motivated ransomware attacks dominated the headlines in 2019, and
there are currently no indications that BGH operators will decrease the pace
of their operations. Unlike BOSS SPIDER in 2018, CrowdStrike Intelligence
analysis indicates that INDRIK SPIDER remains active following the indictment
of individuals associated with the group, a testament to the group’s endurance.
Following a profitable year, WIZARD SPIDER, DOPPEL SPIDER and PINCHY
SPIDER are also unlikely to rest on their laurels. In addition to traditional criminal
enterprises, CrowdStrike Intelligence is investigating possible collaboration between
sophisticated eCrime adversaries and state-sponsored targeted intrusions, with
initial evidence suggesting some tool overlaps and/or cooperation with intelligence
services in DPRK and Russia.
Recommendation: Turn it on and push it out! Fully leverage the
protection you have.
Time and again, CrowdStrike observed successful intrusions in
environments where security controls were in place that could
have successfully blocked attacks, but were not configured by the
organization to do so or were not fully deployed across the environment.
The proliferation of BGH has dramatically increased the impact on
organizations that fail to deploy proper protections. Smart organizations
will spend the time needed to maximize the protection they gain from
existing security controls.
CREDENTIALS
The year 2019 saw increased use of valid credentials in a wide range of cyberattacks,
part of the trend toward malware-free attack techniques. Attackers obtained and
leveraged credentials to gain access to systems, move laterally across organizations
and establish persistence. As long as organizations continue to use basic user IDs and
passwords for authentication, CrowdStrike anticipates this trend will continue.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020
CrowdStrike Intelligence reported on data breaches enabled by the compromise of
2FA. Such incidents highlight the vulnerability of this technology and indicate that
mobile phones may continue to be a target of opportunity for malicious actors of all
motivations. CrowdStrike Intelligence expects malware designed to intercept tokens
or take screenshots of authorization messages will continue to be developed. State
sponsored targeting of mobile platforms will almost certainly be driven by purported
domestic security concerns, as exemplified by China’s use of iOS exploit chains
against minority communities (reported publicly in August 2019).
Recommendation: Protect identities.
As a baseline, 2FA should be established for all users because today’s
attackers have proven to be adept at accessing and using valid
credentials, quickly leading to deeper compromise. Properly deployed,
2FA makes it much more difficult for adversaries to leverage privileged
access to achieve their objectives.
2FA is not a panacea, however, and implementing it does not immediately
solve the problem of protecting identities. In addition to 2FA, a robust
privilege access management process will limit the damage adversaries
can do if they get in, and reduce the likelihood of lateral movement.
SOCIAL ENGINEERING
Network defenders should never underestimate the effectiveness of old-fashioned
social engineering techniques. While business email compromise (BEC) scammers
and targeted eCrime groups have long used telephone conversations to entice
victims to open an email or click on a malicious document, incidents in 2019 showed
these tactics being adopted by targeted intrusion actors supporting DPRK and
Iranian operations. Penetration testing tools like the stalwart Cobalt Strike will
remain popular and may increasingly be joined by other red-teaming tactics such as
CARBON SPIDER’s use of HID (human input device)-emulation USB devices, which
was reported in January 2020.
Recommendation: Enlist your users in the fight.
While technology is clearly critical in the fight to detect and stop
intrusions, the end user remains a critical link in the chain to stop
breaches. User awareness programs should be initiated to combat the
continued threat of phishing and related social engineering techniques.


CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020
GEOPOLITICAL TENSIONS
The very beginning of 2020 was marked by a sudden increase in tensions between
Iran and the U.S., including military action undertaken on both sides. Although
rhetoric de-escalated by mid-January, CrowdStrike Intelligence assesses that
hacktivism, disinformation campaigns on social media in Farsi and English, and
an elevated risk of targeted intrusions (including destructive attacks) will remain
through at least the first quarter of 2020. Given previously observed targeting
trends, Iran-based targeted intrusion activity is likely to target U.S. and MENA
entities in the government, oil and gas, technology and maritime sectors.
Iran and Russia have leveraged U.S. social media platforms to develop information
operations (IO) campaigns, and recent evidence has demonstrated that China is
quickly developing similar disinformation TTPs. The publication of TTPs associated
with these operations may lead to less obvious tactics in the coming year, although
the intent will remain the same — to promote division within communities.
Recommendation: Accept the 1-10-60 challenge.
Combating sophisticated adversaries requires a mature process that
can prevent, detect and respond to threats with speed and agility.
CrowdStrike urges organizations to pursue the “1-10-60 rule” in order to
effectively combat sophisticated cyberthreats:
Detect intrusions in under one minute.
 Investigate and understand threats in under 10 minutes.
Contain and eliminate the adversary from the environment
in under 60 minutes.
Organizations that meet this 1-10-60 benchmark are much more likely to eradicate the
adversary before the attack spreads from its initial entry point, minimizing impact and
further escalation. Meeting this challenge requires investment in deep visibility, as well
as automated analysis and remediation tools across the enterprise, reducing friction
and enabling responders to understand threats and take fast, decisive action.
Recommendation: Look for partners to help fill the talent gap.
Operating at 1-10-60 velocity also takes more than technology.
Defending against sophisticated threats ultimately requires mature
processes and effective, dedicated security professionals. Not every
organization is equipped to engage in this sort of battle 24/7. Successful
enterprises often look outward for help, partnering with best-in-class
external solution providers to help fill critical talent gaps in a costeffective manner.
CROWDSTRIKE GLOBAL THREAT REPORT 2020
ABOUT CROWDSTRIKE
CrowdStrike® Inc. (Nasdaq: CRWD), a global cybersecurity leader, is redefining
security for the cloud era with an endpoint protection platform built from the ground
up to stop breaches. The CrowdStrike Falcon® platform’s single lightweight-agent
architecture leverages cloud-scale artificial intelligence (AI) and offers real-time
protection and visibility across the enterprise, preventing attacks on endpoints
on or off the network. Powered by the proprietary CrowdStrike Threat Graph®,
CrowdStrike Falcon correlates over 3 trillion endpoint-related events per week in
real time from across the globe, fueling one of the world’s most advanced data
platforms for security.
With CrowdStrike, customers benefit from better protection, better performance and
immediate time-to-value delivered by the cloud-native Falcon platform.
There’s only one thing to remember about CrowdStrike: We stop breaches.
© 2020 CrowdStrike, Inc. All rights reserved. CrowdStrike, the falcon logo, CrowdStrike Falcon
and CrowdStrike Threat Graph are trademarks owned by CrowdStrike, Inc. and registered
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and in other countries. CrowdStrike owns
other trademarks and service marks, and may use the brands of third parties to identify their
products and services.