Notable Activity
dropped malware connecting to a known TEMPER PANDA C2 address, www.
verizon.proxydns.com. Activity from the LOTUS PANDA adversary and an
actor using Naikon malware was also observed.
Additionally, CrowdStrike identified an incident carried out by an adversary
believed to have a nexus to Pakistan. This attack used a malicious zip archive
containing a file named Malaysia Airline MH370 hijacked by Pakistan.scr. It
delivered malware more commonly known as BitterBug, which used a C2 at
IP address 199.91.173.45.
Operations related to the MH17 crash appeared to be more limited, but also
began within days of the incident. A number of incidents from China-based
adversaries were observed like the one identified on 22 July 2014 leveraging
a decoy document concerning the black boxes on MH17 and NetTraveler
malware connecting to a C2 at www.gobackto.net. The Russia-based
adversary known to CrowdStrike as FANCY BEAR also piggybacked on the
MH17 disaster, targeting victims with the Sofacy malware dropped alongside
a document concerning the cessation of hostilities around the crash site.
Conflict in Ukraine
The conflict in Ukraine has been the motivation for a significant amount of
targeted intrusion operations and other malicious cyber activity. The conflict
was leveraged to conduct operations targeting entities in Ukraine, Russia,
and other countries with interests in the region.
China-based adversaries were active in targeting around this conflict. A
significant amount of the activity from Chinese actors was related to the
MH17 disaster discussed above. While other malicious operations related to
these events targeted Ukrainian entities, most of the activity from China
based actors appeared to be targeted at Russian organizations. Numerous
incidents were identified leveraging Russian-language lures with content
concerning security in Ukraine, such as the one below that was observed in
an incident from September using PlugX malware calling to chromeupdate.
authorizeddns.org and googlesupport.proxydns.com.
40