Introduction
JOHN LAMBERT, DISTINGUISHED ENGINEER AND GENERAL MANAGER, MICROSOFT THREAT INTELLIGENCE CENTER
Nation state threats are defined as cyber threat activity that originates in a particular country with the
apparent intent of furthering national interests. These attacks represent some of the most advanced and
persistent threat activity Microsoft tracks.
Nation state activity groups are focused, have the
means to develop and deploy novel techniques and
tactics, and are constantly working to improve their
capabilities. We understand the complex nature
of nation state cyberthreats and mobilize all our
security analysis and products to discover, track, and
defend our customers against them.
Microsoft’s approach to defending against nation
state threats is as multifaceted as the threats
themselves. Our approach rests on a thorough
understanding of the tactics and techniques these
groups use, their targeting patterns, and the
possible objectives driving their activity.
These insights, along with the fidelity Microsoft
signals provide, allow us to better spot emerging
malicious campaigns, warn customers about the
activity, and implement protections against them.
The Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center follows
these threats, builds comprehensive profiles of the
activity, and works closely with all Microsoft security
teams to implement detections and mitigations to
protect our customers. Each of those teams shares
related indicators, detections, and research to build
unparalleled visibility into these advanced threats
across the full suite of Microsoft products
and services.
In this chapter, we share some of Microsoft’s
intelligence on the tactics commonly used by nation
state groups, the industry verticals and geographic
regions they target most often, and assessments on
the possible motivations for this malicious activity.
Our hope is that sharing this knowledge will help
security organizations better understand and defend
against these sophisticated and consequential threats.Icon representing the Nation State Threats chapter.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report | September 2020 41
TABLE OF CONTENTS  INTRODUCTION  THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME NATION STATE THREATS SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE  ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS  GLOSSARY