DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos
cybereason.com /blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos
August 3, 2021 |
27 minute read
Following the discovery of Hafnium attacks targeting Microsoft Exchange vulnerabilities, the Cybereason Nocturnus and Incident Response teams proactively hunted for various threat actors trying to
leverage similar techniques in-the-wild. In the beginning of 2021, the Cybereason Nocturnus Team investigated clusters of intrusions detected targeting the telecommunications industry across
Southeast Asia. During the investigation, three clusters of activity were identified and showed significant connections to known threat actors, all suspected to be operating on behalf of Chinese state
interests.
The report comes on the heels of the Biden administration’s public rebuke of China’s Ministry of State Security for the recent HAFNIUM attacks that exploited vulnerabilities in unpatched Microsoft
Exchange Servers and put thousands of organizations worldwide at risk. Exploitation of these same vulnerabilities were central to the success of the attacks detailed in this research.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos 1/35
8/4/2021 DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos
Based on our analysis, we assess that the goal of the attackers behind these intrusions was to gain and maintain continuous access to telecommunication providers and to facilitate cyber espionage by
[collecting sensitive information, compromising high-profile business assets such as the billing servers that contain Call Detail Record (CDR) data, as well as key network components such as the Domain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_detail_record#:~:text=A%20call%20detail%20record%20(CDR,through%20that%20facility%20or%20device.)
Controllers, Web Servers and Microsoft Exchange servers.
Cluster A : Assessed to be operated by Soft Cell, an activity group in operation since 2012, previously attacking Telcos in multiple regions including Southeast Asia, which was first discovered by
Cybereason in 2019. We assess with a high level of confidence that the Soft Cell activity group is operating in the interest of China. The activity around this cluster started in 2018 and continued
through Q1 2021.
Cluster B: Assessed to be operated by the Naikon APT threat actor, a highly active cyber espionage group in operation since 2010 which mainly targets ASEAN countries. The Naikon APT group
was previously attributed to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) Chengdu Military Region Second Technical Reconnaissance Bureau (Military Unit Cover Designator 78020). The activity
around this cluster was first observed in Q4 2020 and continued through Q1 2021.
Cluster C: A “mini-cluster” characterized by a unique OWA backdoor that was deployed across multiple Microsoft Exchange and IIS servers. Analysis of the backdoor shows significant code
similarities with a previously documented backdoor observed being used in the operation dubbed Iron Tiger, which was attributed to a Chinese threat actor tracked by various researchers as Group-
3390 (APT27 / Emissary Panda). The activity around this cluster was observed between 2017 and Q1 2021.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos 2/35
8/4/2021 DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos
The correlation between the three clusters
It is noteworthy to mention that the Cybereason Nocturnus Team also observed an interesting overlap among the three clusters: In some instances, all three clusters of activity were observed in the same
target environment, around the same timeframe, and even on the same endpoints. At this point, there is not enough information to determine with certainty the nature of this overlap -- namely, whether
these clusters represent the work of three different threat actors working independently, or whether these clusters represent the work of three different teams operating on behalf of a single threat actor.
Regardless, we do offer several plausible hypotheses that might account for this observation.
We hope that the information provided in this report will assist in shedding light on further related intrusions, and as time goes by more information will be made available with regard to the connection
between the clusters, the suspected threat actors, and the relationship between them.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/deadringer-exposing-chinese-threat-actors-targeting-major-telcos 3/35
8/4/2021 DeadRinger: Exposing Chinese Threat Actors Targeting Major Telcos