The Bit9 incident
Bit9 is a security company headquartered in Waltham, Massachusetts. As an alternative to traditional
signature-based antivirus solutions, Bit9 offers a trust-based security platform that runs off of a cloud-based
reputation service combined with policy-driven
application control and whitelisting to protect against
cyberthreats. As a result, it is difficult for a malicious
third-party to install an untrusted application, such
as a remote access Trojan (RAT), onto a system
that is adequately protected with the Bit9 platform.
Undaunted by this, the elite Hidden Lynx group took
up the challenge.
On February 8 2013, Bit9 released details revealing
that a malicious third-party had gained access to one
of their digital code-signing certificates. During this
incident, a number of Trojans and malicious scripts
were signed. In a follow up post on February 25, more
details of the attack emerged. In July 2012, more than
six months earlier, a malicious third-party gained
access to their network using an SQL injection attack.
Due to an operational oversight, a public-facing
server that wasn’t protected with the Bit9 platform
allowed the attackers to gain unauthorized access.
Figure 3. Trojan.Naid – Bit9 digital certific ate, July 13,
2012, provided by Symantec’s CA
The attackers installed Backdoor.Hikit, a Trojan
that provides extremely stealthy remote access to
compromised systems. This highly customized Trojan
is typically installed onto servers in the victims’ DMZ,
which was the case at Bit9. Credentials for another
virtual machine were then stolen. These were used
to access the virtual machine that contained one of
Bit9’s digital code-signing certificates. The attackers
used this code-signing infrastructure to sign
thirty-two malicious files. Symantec telemetry
shows some of these files have been present
within select organizations in the United States
defense industrial sector.
The signing of these files is significant, since
they could then be used to circumvent the
trust protection model offered by the Bit9
platform. The Trojans signed include variants
of Backdoor.Hikit (the remote access Trojan
used in the initial compromise) and another
RAT called Trojan.Naid. Some malicious attack
scripts were also signed. Each Trojan has a
specific purpose. Backdoor.Hikit was used to
target public-facing infrastructure while Trojan.
Naid was used to perform highly targeted
attacks through email and watering-holes.
Figure 4. Trojans successfully acquired with command-and-
control (C&C) servers from the Bit9 investigation
Page 9
Bit9 was alerted to the compromise in January
2013 and took immediate containment steps
such as revoking the digital signature and
reaching out to their entire customer base.
According to Bit9, the attacks that followed
Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire
were not financially motivated, but rather were an attempt to access information. On Bit9’s own admission,
three customers were impacted.
In conjunction with the Bit9 compromise, the Hidden Lynx group had another significant campaign well under
way. They had just concluded phase one of the VOHO campaign, a watering-hole operation orchestrated to
attack organizations in the Boston, Massachusetts area – it was a likely a distribution vector for the newly signed
files.