Activity targeting telecoms
Greenbug’s activity in this campaign seems to make it clear that its main focus with these victims is to steal credentials, and
to maintain a low profile on the victim’s network so the attackers can remain on it for a substantial period of time. This is
typical of the activity we have seen in Greenbug victims in the past, with maintaining persistence on a victim network
appearing to be one of the group’s primary goals. Greenbug has also been observed targeting telecoms companies in this
same region in previous attack campaigns.
The setting up of tunnels shows how important keeping a low-profile is for this group. Its focus on stealing credentials, and on
establishing connections with database servers, shows that it is aiming to achieve a high level of access to a victim’s
network - access that if exploited could cause havoc on a compromised network very quickly. This level of access, if
leveraged by actors using disruptive malware or ransomware, could shut down an organization’s entire network very quickly.
Previous victims of Greenbug have included organizations in the aviation, government, investment, and education sectors, as
well as the telecoms sector, with attacks against telecoms organizations in the Middle East in 2017. In 2019, we observed 18
nation-state backed groups targeting the telecoms sector worldwide, so it seems to be an area of interest for sophisticated
actors recently.
It is probably not too hard to understand why the telecommunications industry, made up of phone providers and internet
service providers (ISPs), is attractive to APT groups, whose main motivation is most often intelligence gathering. The access
to calls, communications logs, and messages offered by telecoms companies makes them hugely valuable targets for these
attackers.
We can only speculate about Greenbug’s motives for targeting these specific telecoms companies, but it is clear that
comprehensive and persistent access to victim networks remains the key priority for this group.
https://symantec-enterprise-blogs.security.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/greenbug-espionage-telco-south-asia 5/7
5/21/2020 Sophisticated Espionage Group Turns Attention to Telecom Providers in South Asia | Symantec Blogs