Targeting
In mid-August 2019, the Anomali Threat Research Team discovered suspicious “.lnk” files during
routine intelligence collection. While the distribution method of these documents cannot be
confirmed at this time, it is likely that spearphishing is being utilized because it aligns with
Mustang Panda’s TTPs, and it is a common tactic used amongst APT actors. The lure documents
are also too specific in their targeting, and the targeted entities and individuals would be of
interest to a China-sponsored threat group.
https://www.anomali.com/blog/china-based-apt-mustang-panda-targets-minority-groups-public-and-private-sector-organizations 2/21
10/8/2019 China-Based APT Mustang Panda Targets Minority Groups, Public and Private Sector Organizations | Anomali
Further analysis of the files led to the identification of other “.lnk” files that were attempting to
infect individuals with a Cobalt Strike Beacon (penetration-testing tool) or PlugX (Remote Access
Tool (RAT); other payloads were unable to be identified as of this writing. Anomali researchers
identified 15 malicious documents that we believe were utilized by Mustang Panda in an ongoing
campaign. The documents reveal malicious activity dating from at least November 2018 up to
August 29, 2019. The date of this activity is confirmed by the VirusTotal (VT) submission dates,
which will be analyzed further in the following sections. In addition, the dates within the
documents go back as far as October 8, 2017, therefore, it is possible this activity goes back to
2017 if the group was using current content in their lures. The primary target of this campaign
were found to be the ruling political party of Vietnam, The Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV);
other targets observed in the malicious documents include the following:
CPV of Lang Son province, Vietnam
CPV of Lao Cai province, Vietnam
Embassy of Vietnam, China
Henan Provincial Party Committee, Vietnam
Individuals who would find United Nations’ documents of interest, potentially think tanks
MIAT Airlines, Mongolian airline
Police of Sindh Province, Pakistan
Restoration Council of Shan State / Shan State Army, Loi Tai Leng, Southern Shan State,
Myanmar (Burma)
The China Center (China Zentrum e.V), Germany
The lure documents are themed to be relevant to their targets, and in some cases are copies of
legitimate documents that are publicly available. The “.lnk” files being utilized by Mustang Panda
typically contain an embedded HTA script that, once executed, will drop and open the decoy
document while the malicious activity of the payload runs in the background. Other lure
documents are themed to be relevant to their targets, and in some cases are legitimate
documents that are publicly available. The final type of malicious document we observed were
empty, and only contain an image, such as requesting for macros to be enabled, used to distract
someone while malicious activity takes place in the background.