Tools and Technology impacts
Ukraine Attack
The attackers used multiple approaches to impact communication tools, operator technology for restoration
efforts, and facility infrastructure essential to many operator activities. Therefore, mitigation recommendations
are varied. Items to focus on are:

Establishing filtering and response capabilities at telecom providers to activate during an ongoing TDoS

attack


Disable remote management of field devices when they are not required.


Disconnect building control infrastructure systems from the ICS network.


Consider the number of spares required for embedded systems to regain required communication or
control/protection.


The Next Attack
A subsequent attack may progress from resource consumption to a more direct communication path outage
that affects communication capabilities. To mitigate this approach, defenders need to establish alternate
communications infrastructure for essential service capabilities.
After an attacker identifies increased security requirements for field device management, they may attempt to
establish direct access to a field device through a local asset with connectivity or physical presence at the site for
direct firmware manipulation. Mitigation strategies for this attack approach focus on electronic and physical
access controls and the development of a rapid response capability during an attack or incident.
Opportunities to Disrupt
A determined adversary can impact remote assets either electronically or physically. A defender should develop
strong recovery and restoration approaches to replace mission-critical cyber asset components. One option is to
rely on inventory and mutual aid assistance from trusted peer organizations and/or suppliers. In cases where
specific assets are not immediately recoverable, it is necessary to develop the ability to operate the larger
system with operational islands that can be recovered in a timely manner.
Defenders should have access to and visibility of the ICSs to be able to identify abnormal behavior around field
device interaction. For example, uploading firmware outside of a scheduled downtime should be quickly
observable. Firmware modifications over the network cause spikes in network traffic that active defenders
should be consistently looking for. See Figure 10 for an example of a malicious firmware update to an industrial
network switch. Even without knowing the baseline of normal activity, which defenders should have, it can be
trivial to spot firmware updates in network data.
E-ISAC | Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid | March 18, 2016
15
Defense Lessons Learned – Passive and Active Defenses
Figure 10: Sample Network I/O Data from a Malicious Firmware Update to an Industrial Ethernet Switch [37]