Behavior Analysis
The malware is delivered through spear-phishing email messages. The infection starts with a
macro-armed Excel document. The Macro contains a base64 encoded executable payload,
copied as “monitor.exe”, which will be deployed in a just created folder, named “.Monitor” under
“C:\Users\Public”. Through the usage of Windows Task Scheduler, “monitor.exe” is added to a
new task, named “ SystemErrorReporter ”, whose execution is scheduled every minute.
Analyzing the resources embedded into “ monitor.exe ”, it is possible to discover some further
information, such as the credentials used to access a Microsoft Exchange server hosted in
Lebanon. For privacy reasons, the primary communication server will not be publicly released.
hardcoded credentials of the implant
We guess the attackers have compromised the account “ media@xxx.local ”, belonging to the
local domain of the targeted institution, and used it to perform malicious operations. In this
specific case, the access to the mail server is used by the malware to get a list of commands to
be executed through the retrieving and parsing of a CMD list. So, it acts like a command-and
control server.
https://blog.telsy.com/apt34-aka-oilrig-attacks-lebanon-government-entities-with-maildropper-implant/ 2/6
3/3/2020 Telsy TRT
Retrieving and parsing CMDs
If the mail server is down or deny the access, the malware uses a backup URL,
“ hxxp://godoycrus.com ” to get the commands list, according to the evidences below:
Switch between Command and Control servers
The malware is capable to perform the following primary operations:
[+] arbitrary commands execution
[+] download and upload of files
[+] data exfiltration
The following is a extraction of the commands handling code snippet:
https://blog.telsy.com/apt34-aka-oilrig-attacks-lebanon-government-entities-with-maildropper-implant/ 3/6
3/3/2020 Telsy TRT
Code handling code snippet
Interesting the way through which the malware retrieves the commands from the mail server. It
access to the Inbox folder and search for emails containing a specific subject:
“ Resume7AKF1PMAVAHI7SYK ” . If one or more emails are found, the malware tries to extract
the content of the attachment files, that corresponds to a Base64-encoded command that should
be executed.
Once the attachments are inspected, the current email is definitely deleted using the
“ HardDelete ” flag. In this way the email message does not even appear in the trash folder.
As shown above, the retrieved commands are executed using the “ ExecAllCmds ” method and
the result is sent to the C2 through the “ SendResult ” method. If the malware is using the
Exchange server as C2, the output of the commands execution is sent as email message. Once
again, the malware uses a specific pattern to build the email: its subject is build starting from the
https://blog.telsy.com/apt34-aka-oilrig-attacks-lebanon-government-entities-with-maildropper-implant/ 4/6
3/3/2020 Telsy TRT
string “ Great! 7AKF1PMAVAHI7SYK ”, appending the current date to it. The email body contains
only the string “ This is our reusme! ” ( showing with a syntax error ) and the attachment is a “. txt ”
file named “ resume.txt ”, which contains the encoded information returned by the commands
execution. The following image is another evidence about what observed:
All the data exchanged between the implant and the server is encrypted using an AES+RSA
schema. The data is first ciphered using AES algorithm with an auto-generated key, then the key
is encrypted using RSA and prepended to the data that will be sent to the server, as shown
following: