Blue Termite/ Cloudy Omega/ Emdivi
The Blue Termite malware campaign has targeted hundreds of Japanese organizations
since its inception in 2011. According to Kaspersky, the malware is Chinese in origin. The C&C
infrastructure is located in Japan, the primary target of the campaign. In a November 2014
report, Symantec indicated that the group might share communication channels or attack
infrastructure with the Hidden Lynx APT group.
Over four years, the malware has stolen confidential information from government
agencies, universities, public interest groups. financial institutions, media organizations,
automotive companies, chemical organizations, healthcare firms, electrical companies, real
6
estate firms, technology firms, and other critical infrastructure organizations. The majority of
the targets were based or located in Japan. Blue Termite is also allegedly responsible for
compromising the personal data of 1.25 million Japanese citizens in a breach of the Japan
Pension Service.
Initially, like most malware groups, Blue Termite relied on phishing campaigns to
spread its malware. For instance, in 2013, it spread malicious emails relating to the Ichitaro
product line. The content of the emails varied according to the target organization; however,
many focused on political events. Opening the email attachment deployed a malicious
payload. Usually, the attachment was an executable with a fake icon. Occasionally, the
attachment would contain code to exploit a vulnerability in specific target software instead. A
notable characteristic of the payload is that often the lure document would open and then
the document reader would crash before reopening a clean document. The malware would
be delivered at the time of the crash and the reopened document would no longer carry the
malware.
Like Sofacy and many other threat actors, the activity of the group increased in July
2015 in response to the breach of the Hacking Team servers and the public disclosure of a
number of valuable 0-day exploits and system vulnerabilities. In particular, the group began
to use a Flash player exploit (CVE-2015-5119) to conduct drive-by-download malware attacks
from compromised Japanese malware sites. The group altered its behavior to target
individuals as well as organizations. The group also conducted watering hole attacks intent on
infecting systems belonging to prominent members of the Japanese government. In other
attacks, infected sites were configured to only infect visitors whose IP addresses belonged to
target organizations.
Blue Termite’s attack kit relies on the Emdivi family of malware. The group uses
Backdoor.Emdivi, Backdoor.Korplug, and Backdoor.ZXshell to compromise a system and
establish a persistence presence. The backdoor enables a remote adversary to execute
commands from a C&C server via HTTP. The malware contains components to search files,
delete files, upload files to C2 servers, execute code, acquire a list of running processes, steal
auto-complete information and saved credential information from Internet Explorer, and
steal the proxy settings of browsers such as Mozilla Firefox. Kaspersky noted that “One of the
most interesting things about the malware used by the Blue Termite actor is that each victim
is supplied with a unique malware sample that is made in a way that it could only be launched
on a specific PC, targeted by the Blue Termite actor.” Each variant has a unique version
number and a type (Type S or Type T). The version number indicates that the group
systematically deploys the malware as part of an organized campaign. The version and extra
words are also used to generate a hash, which is used as an encryption key. Both types allow
7
the adversary to remotely execute code and to steal credentials stored in Internet Explorer.
Both variants also share the same hardcoded C&C infrastructure. Type T, the more prevalent
variant, is written in C++. Type T encrypts its C&C address and detection protection
mechanisms as an anti-analysis technique to prevent debugging and analysis in virtual
machines or sandbox environments. Type S is a .NET application that is based on Type T. Type
S lacks the encryption and anti-analysis mechanisms. Type S also changes its file hash
between versions by relying on Japanese sentences taken from the internet.