INTRODUCTION
Three years ago, a young, motivated Russian-speaking cyber criminal group started targeting
the financial sector. Early on, Silence showed signs of immaturity in their TTP by making mistakes
and copying practices from other groups. Now, Silence is one of the most active threat actors
targeting the financial sector. Since we released our original report, Silence: Moving into the
darkside, the confirmed damage from Silence's operations has increased fivefold compared to the
figures in Group-IB's initial report.
As of August 2019, the confirmed amount of funds stolen by Silence from June 2016 to June 2019 is at least
4.2 million US dollars.
Silence started by targeting organizations in Russia, gradually shifting their focus to former Soviet
countries, and then the world. Over time, the group expanded its geography, which has attracted
the attention of cybersecurity researchers.
This attention has lead Silence to grow more cautious and increase their OpSec (operational
security). Silence has made a number of changes to their toolset with one goal: to complicate
detection by security tools. In particular, they changed their encryption alphabets, string
encryption, and commands for the bot and the main module. In addition, the actor has completely
rewritten TrueBot loader, the first-stage module, on which the success of the group’s entire
attack depends. The hackers also started using Ivoke, a fileless loader, and EDA agent, both
written in PowerShell. Silence has also made a move to including fileless modules in their arsenal,
albeit much later than other APT groups, suggesting that the group is still playing catch-up
compared to other cybercriminal groups.
Group-IB analysts have identified similarities between Silence.Downloader and FlawedAmmyy.
Downloader, which is believed to be linked to attacks by TA505. Both of these programs seem to
have been developed by the same individual.
Silence 2.0: Going Global is an extension of our original report: Silence: Moving into the
Darkside which remains the most significant contribution to the research on the group
and is the first such report to reveal Silence’s activity. Our new report encompasses events
that occurred between May 2018 and 1 August 2019 and contains a comprehensive description
of modern TTP.
To help with proper attribution and prevent new incidents this report contains sections
for technical specialists and analysts to help study the Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP)
and tools employed by Silence. Suricata, YARA and other detailed technical information is only
available to Group-IB Threat Intelligence customers.
Silence is still playing catch-up: they are adopting the approaches of other groups, all the while modifying older
tools and trying out new ones.
2