Analysis – BalkanRAT
The BalkanRAT part of the malicious Balkan- toolset is more complex compared to its backdoor
accomplice. Its goal is to deploy a copy of the Remote Utilities software, which is commercial
software by a Russian vendor, Remote Utilities, LLC, used for remote access to a computer or for
remote administration. BalkanRAT also provides the attacker with the credentials needed for this
remote access.
BalkanRAT has several additional components to help load, install and conceal the existence of
the RDS. They can add exceptions to the firewall, hide the RDS’s window and its tray icon, and
hide the presence of related processes in the task manager.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/14/balkans-businesses-double-barreled-weapon/ 6/18
8/15/2019 In the Balkans, businesses are under fire from a double ~~-~~ barreled weapon | WeLiveSecurity
Figure 4. Components used in the campaign to deploy and hide the presence of the RDS

The dropper first unpacks all components; a configuration file, the remote desktop software

and a core component installing it, a userland rootkit, a GUI hider and a decoy PDF file.
2. The dropper opens the PDF file so as not to arouse suspicion of the user.
3. Covertly, the dropper executes the core component (32-bit) in the installation mode.

The core component (32-bit) installs itself to be executed with each start, and adds

exception to the firewall for the RDS. It executes commands inst1 and inst2 specified in the
configuration file, and executes itself again, now in stealth mode.


In this mode, the core component acts like a keylogger.


The core component (32-bit) executes the 64-bit version of itself, in injection mode (if


applicable).

The core component (64-bit) injects the userland rootkit (64-bit) into task manager

processes. The userland rootkit then hides presence of the malicious processes in the task
manager.
8. The core component (32-bit) executes the RDS. It repeatedly monitors and hides the RDS
window (because it is a GUI application).

The core component (32-bit) injects the userland rootkit (32-bit) into task manager

processes. The userland rootkit then hides presence of the malicious processes in the task
manager.
10. The core component (32-bit) executes commands cmd1 and cmd2, as specified in the
configuration file. One of such commands was seen executing a GUI hider, which is an
AutoHotKey script hiding the tray icon of the RDS.
Note: Some components are optional. Also, sometimes they are deployed as a set comprising an
encrypted payload and the corresponding loader. We are omitting these details.
The configuration file of BalkanRAT is in INI file format (similarly to BalkanDoor, which uses this
format for backdoor commands), with one section named [CFG]. The INI file is used by the
malware’ core component and the userland rootkit.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/14/balkans-businesses-double-barreled-weapon/ 7/18
8/15/2019 In the Balkans, businesses are under fire from a double ~~-~~ barreled weapon | WeLiveSecurity
inst1, inst2 Commands executed by the core component during installation
cmd1, cmd2 Command executed by the core component main payload
hproc List of processes that should be hidden by userland rootkit
mproc List of processes where userland rootkit is injected
Figure 5. BalkanRAT’s configuration file – properties (top) and example (below)
BalkanRAT’s core is a multipurpose component (there are both a 32-bit and a 64-bit versions); it
can be executed in various modes, determined by the command-line argument. Most significantly,
it is used for installation of BalkanRAT, launching a userland rootkit and adding exceptions for the
RDS component in the firewall.
Argu‐
ment
Functionality
/rhc Executes a batch file
/fwl Adds exception to the firewall for the specified program
/sreg Sets configuration data for the RDS in the registry (especially email address where the
credentials should be sent)
/inst Ensures persistence by adding itself to the [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Mi‐
crosoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows] registry key under the “load” entry. Adds
exception for the RDS to the local firewall. Executes itself again in the main mode (no
arguments).
/inj Injects the userland rootkit library into processes, as specified in the configuration file
(none) Main mode. Executes the 64-bit version of itself (if applicable), injects the userland rootkit,
executes the RDS and hides the window by changing its coordinates to values outside the
screen.
Another thread captures pressed keystrokes.
The main part of the BalkanRAT malware is a copy of the Remote Utilities software for remote
access. Instead of using the official version, BalkanRAT deploys a copy signed by a certificate of
the attacker.
The client side of the RDS running on the victim’s computer must know the unique ID and the
password, both generated on the server side, to connect to the server. The RDS deployed by
BalkanRAT is configured in such a way that the password is the same for all victims, and the
generated unique ID is sent to the attacker’s email address by the tool itself.
Since the tool BalkanRAT misuses is legitimate, it leverages the genuine Remote Utilities’
infrastructure for this communication (rutils.com, server.rutils.com); due to this, the
communication may seem legitimate to the user – and to security products.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/14/balkans-businesses-double-barreled-weapon/ 8/18
8/15/2019 In the Balkans, businesses are under fire from a double ~~-~~ barreled weapon | WeLiveSecurity
As a result, the attacker has obtained credentials to access the compromised computer via the
Remote Utilities software. Using this tool, they can broadcast the screen to monitor the activity of
the user and manually take over the compromised computer.
Figure 6. A window the victim never sees. With a legitimate copy of Remote Utilities, this
window is visible; however, BalkanRAT will hide it using the GUI hider feature.
To remain stealthy, BalkanRAT uses the GUI hider feature. In most samples (some older ones are
an exception), it is implemented as an AutoHotKey script, compiled into an executable file so that
it can be run on a computer even if AutoHotKey is not installed there. The purpose of this script is
to hide the tray icon of the RDS client.
Figure 7. AutoHotKey script embedded in the resource section of the executable
Another notable feature used by BalkanRAT to stay hidden is the ability to hide processes from
the user.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/14/balkans-businesses-double-barreled-weapon/ 9/18
8/15/2019 In the Balkans, businesses are under fire from a double ~~-~~ barreled weapon | WeLiveSecurity
To achieve this, userland rootkit libraries are injected in processes hardcoded in the configuration
file. The userland rootkit hooks the NtQuerySystemInformation function for the process in which it
is injected. In case SystemProcessInformation is queried, it filters out all entries for processes
with the names specified in the configuration file. As a result, conventional task manager utilities
will not display the processes the attackers want to keep hidden from the user.
Figure 8. With the userland rootkit injected, some processes are missing in the list (left). Without the rootkit, the processes
are visible (right).
Naturally, the list of processes that will be hidden contain mostly ones belonging to BalkanRAT.
However, we have also seen names like “weather.exe” or “preserve.exe” in the list – which belong
to the BalkanDoor backdoor. This finding supports the belief these two tools are indeed used
together.