1. Executive Summary
From late 2013 onwards, several banks and financial institutions have been
attacked by an unknown group of cybercriminals. In all these attacks, a similar
modus operandi was used. According to victims and the law enforcement
agencies (LEAs) involved in the investigation, this could result in cumulative
losses of up to 1 billion USD. The attacks are still active.
This report provides a technical analysis of these attacks.
The motivation for the attackers, who are making use of techniques commonly
seen in Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs), appears to be financial gain as
opposed to espionage.
An analysis of the campaign has revealed that the initial infections were
achieved using spear phishing emails that appeared to be legitimate banking
communications, with Microsoft Word 97 – 2003 (.doc) and Control Panel Applet
(.CPL) files attached. We believe that the attackers also redirected to exploit kits
website traffic that related to financial activity.
The email attachments exploit vulnerabilities in Microsoft Office 2003, 2007 and
2010 (CVE-2012-0158 and CVE-2013-3906) and Microsoft Word (CVE-20141761). Once the vulnerability is successfully exploited, the shellcode decrypts
and executes the backdoor known as Carbanak.
Carbanak is a remote backdoor (initially based on Carberp), designed for
espionage, data exfiltration and to provide remote access to infected machines.
Once access is achieved, attackers perform a manual reconnaissance of the
victim’s networks. Based on the results of this operation, the attackers use
different lateral movement tools in order to get access to the critical systems
in the victim´s infrastructure. They then install additional software such as the
Ammyy Remote Administration Tool, or even compromise SSH servers. Notably,
some of the latest versions of the analyzed Carbanak malware appear not to use
any Carberp source code.
Once the attackers successfully compromise the victim´s network, the primary
internal destinations are money processing services, Automated Teller Machines
(ATM) and financial accounts. In some cases, the attackers used the Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) network to transfer
money to their accounts. In others, Oracle databases were manipulated to open
payment or debit card accounts at the same bank or to transfer money between
TLP: White For any inquiries, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com