Vulnerability exploits chain patching
This is the most sensitive and least controlled part of any commercial spyware solution.
Still, one may think that there is a high impact on the operational capability of a
commercial spyware vendor, but the reality seems to prove the impact is low, or medium
at most.
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/intellexa-and-cytrox-intel-agency-grade-spyware/ 10/12
1/16/24, 11:53 AM Intellexa and Cytrox: From fixer-upper to Intel Agency-grade spyware
Exploit brokers and exploit research companies, sell full or partial exploit chains as a
subscription model where the customers are entitled to workable replacements if the
purchased chain is patched.
The timeline of events shows that it took Intellexa, at most, six months (probably less) to
obtain and integrate a new fully operational exploit chain into their solution, after their
Android previous one was patched in Nov 2021. This is confirmed by the fact that, in
May 2022, their platform was being shipped to a new customer in Sudan, according to
the Lighthouse report.
Overall, this demonstrates that exposing the vulnerabilities used by commercial spyware
vendors, although extremely important, does not impose much of a risk on them. In fact,
that risk is transferred onto the exploit brokers and vendors.
This has caught the attention of the Biden-Harris administration, to the point that the
Intellexa Alliance was added to the Entity List for “ ...determination that the companies
engaged in trafficking in cyber exploits used to gain access to information systems… ” In
practical terms, U.S.-based companies that deal in exploits cannot do business with the
Intellexa galaxy of companies. This means that Intellexa will have to procure its exploits
from companies in other regions, which for the time being, doesn’t seem to be a
problem. However, if the United Kingdom and the European Union take similar actions,
the market will become smaller, making it much harder for these companies to acquire
their initial attack vector.