In Through Out


Reconnaissance


Resource Development


Delivery


Social Engineering


Exploitation


Persistence


Defense Evasion


Command & Control


Pivoting


Discovery


Privilege Escalation


Execution


Credential Access


Lateral Movement


Collection


Exfiltration


Impact


Objectives


Each group corresponds to the different intentions of attackers:
In : attackers attempt to gain access to systems or data available only to trusted users or devices. These
systems or data often reside in an enterprise network, which means that the attackers are aiming to penetrate
the enterprise perimeter.
Through : after infiltrating the infrastructure, attackers attempt to obtain the privileges that are required for
fulfilling their initial plans. This includes expanding their network of compromised resources, elevating their
privileges in the domain, and obtaining the account credentials of high-privilege users.
Out : after obtaining the necessary access and privileges, the attackers achieve their initial objectives:
exfiltrating data (cyber-espionage) or influencing operation of critical components (sabotage).
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 292
—
Reconnaissance Asian APT groups conduct initial reconnaissance of their
victim according to their strategic goals, which may be related
to politics, economics, technology, or other interests of the
particular group. They may consider the following factors:
Scope of activity. Asian APT groups may be targeting
organizations whose activity is related to technological
innovations, armaments, government regulation, energy, or
other important industries.
Access to valuable information. They target organizations
or employees who may have access to valuable intellectual
property or government secrets. This information is gathered
to compile a victim profile and generate appropriate phishing
messages for future use.
Holes in system security. Attackers probe the network
perimeter of an organization to identify known vulnerabilities
in systems or weak cybersecurity measures. This type of
reconnaissance is conducted to choose the initial attack vector.
Existing cybersecurity measures. Attackers seek data that can
reveal the specific cybersecurity tools currently used in the
organization. This data is required for proper preparation of the
attacker's arsenal prior to an attack.
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 293
—
Resource Development After choosing their victim, Asian APT groups test their attack
arsenal to see if their tools can be detected by the specific
security products that may be protecting the endpoints in the
target infrastructure. The attackers make sure that all of the
malware components that will be used in the attack are not,
upon their release, detected or blocked by cybersecurity tools.
If they are detected, the malware developers attempt to
ascertain which specific code segment or component was
detected by the security tools and then build a revised
component that will not be detected. When attackers attempt
to use a set of executable files (EXE) and dynamic-link libraries
(DLL) for the DLL Hijacking attack technique but their actions
are detected by some blocking mechanism, they often try
to find a way to evade this detection. To do so, the malware
developers may change the contents of the EXE/DLL to bypass
protection. If the attackers are not able to quickly bypass
detection, they simply replace the executable files and libraries
with different ones that do not raise suspicion. This lets them
avoid being blocked and evade other security measures to
continue their cyberattack.
Attackers also frequently try to deploy multiple functionally
overlapping backdoors on an infected system. This enables
the actors to switch between these backdoors on an infected
machine in case certain components of the malware are
detected and blocked.
An important distinguishing feature among Asian APT groups
is their generally low priority for stealth and concealment. Their
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 294
Delivery
Social Engineering
T1566.001 After attackers complete the preparation of their attack arsenal,
this arsenal must be delivered to the victim's system. For this
scenario, we decided to merge 2 phases into one because
malware delivery and social engineering are normally combined
by the popular technique known as phishing.
A favorite subtechnique used by Asian APT groups is known
as Phishing: Spearphishing Attachment T1566.001. Instead of
mass mailing phishing messages, attackers specifically select
their victims after carefully studying their profiles and network
behavior. This enables the attackers to create more persuasive
and personalized phishing emails or messages, which increases
the likelihood of a successful attack. The attacker attempts
to exploit specific processes within the victim's organization
or potential events in the country while accounting for the
geographic and cultural specifics of the victim. The attacker
may also target specific individuals or management officers to
gain access to their personal information or pursue a political or
economic benefit. Based on the "Technical Details" section, we
primarily observe the following:
        - Self-extracting archives containing an office document and a

malicious executable file;
        - Archives containing malicious executable files whose names

end with PDF or DOC so that the victim will think it is a real
document and open the file.
Exploitation T1190 This vector remains an excellent opportunity for initial infection
of an infrastructure if the previous phase is more resource-intensive albeit simpler in implementation. Asian APT groups are
known for their advanced technical skills and exploitation of
various vulnerabilities for successful attacks. They attempt to
exploit popular vulnerabilities in web applications, mail services, remote administration tools, and many other resources.
A detailed list of popular CVEs employed by Asian APT groups
is provided in the "Technical Details" section under the Exploit
Public-Facing Application T1190 technique.
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 295
Persistence T1546
T1546.003
T1546.012
T1546.015
T1197
T1078
T1078.002
T1053
T1053.005
T1543.003
T1505
T1505.003
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
As revealed by our observations, Asian APT groups establish
persistence within an infrastructure by using a multitude of
procedures and techniques ranging from the simplest to the
most complicated:


Valid Accounts T1078


Scheduled Task/Job T1053


Windows Service T1543.003


Windows Management Instrumentation Event Subscription
T1546.003


Image File Execution Options Injection T1546.012


Component Object Model Hijacking T1546.015


This set of techniques was observed only in some of the
detected incidents related to Asian APT groups. Its use
depends on the specific group and their capability to implement
certain techniques within the victim's infrastructure.
However, we do observe one persistence approach in the
overwhelming majority of incidents involving Asian APT groups.
This approach is a combination of the Create or Modify System
Process: Windows Service T1543.003 + Hijack Execution
Flow: DLL Side-Loading T1574.002 technique and subsequent
implementation of the Process Injection: Process Hollowing
T1055.012 technique to avoid detection of the attacker's
activity.
This combination is especially notable because it is associated
with multiple MITRE ATT&CK tactics, including persistence,
privilege escalation, and defense evasion. This provides the
attacker with a favorable position for subsequent attack
activity. As we already described in the "Technical Details"
section, the attackers first deliver a malicious dynamic library
and a clean executable file that is vulnerable to DLL Hijacking,
then they create a Windows service based on the legitimate
file that was dropped onto the host. Then they start the
service, which results in the execution of the malicious library.
The attacker then proceeds to use the technique known as
Process Injection: Process Hollowing T1055.012. In this scenario,
the service process creates a new legitimate process in the
suspended state, and a backdoor for interacting with the
command and control center is injected into this process. To
disguise the malicious service in addition to using the DLL SideLoading T1574.002 technique, Asian APT groups often create a
service that is concealed behind the svchost.exe process.
As a result, the attacker always has a running process with
System privileges maintained through the service to complete
further steps in their attack.
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 296
Defence Evasion T1574
T1574.001
T1574.002
T1070
T1070.004
T1070.005
T1055
T1055.012
T1562
T1562.001
T1027
T1564
T1564.003
T1036
T1036.005
T1036.004
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
During the later phases of the UKC, Asian APT groups no longer
try so hard to conceal their malicious activity in the targeted
infrastructure because their goal is to steal as much information
as possible as quickly as possible. In case the attack is being
ignored by security personnel, they try to remain in the network
as long as possible.
Nevertheless, we do observe a sufficiently broad spectrum of
techniques related to the Defense Evasion phase. During the
first phases of the UKC, Asian APT groups normally use a set of
techniques that can be rather difficult to detect by themselves.
These are primarily the Hijack Execution Flow T1574 and
Process Injection T1055 techniques. It can be quite problematic
for security personnel to detect these techniques without
advanced monitoring within the infrastructure.
During later phases, attackers are not averse to using "louder"
techniques to conceal their actions or outright disabling data
protection tools that hinder them from carrying out their
planned steps. APT groups use various resources to disable
security tools. These may include utilities that are specially
created for this purpose, or utilities that are already available in
the operating system. They may also change registry settings,
use PowerShell, or employ other legitimate tools for their own
purposes, including those provided for Living off the Land
techniques at lolbas-project.github.io based on the MITRE
ATT&CK framework.
Over the course of an entire attack, Asian APT groups use a
set of techniques related to obfuscation to achieve various
objectives in the infrastructure, including the following:


Bypass security solutions to deliver malicious code


Bypass security solutions to execute malicious code.


Collect data in infected systems for subsequent data
exfiltration.


The simplest techniques used by attackers are related to the
Masquerading T1036 technique. The most frequently used
masquerading methods are to create and start processes/
services/files that look like legitimate ones in the operating
system to make it more difficult for cybersecurity experts to
effectively analyze the infected system. However, these actions
are easy to detect if security personnel has configured the
necessary monitoring rules in the infrastructure.
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 297
Command & Control T1071
T1071.001
T1102
T1105
Main Command & Control technique is Application Layer
Protocol: Web Protocols T1071.001. Most use the HTTP and
HTTPS protocols for C2 communications.
The observed groups use various backdoors to interact with
a CnC server. They most frequently use a dynamic library that
is executed via the DLL Side-loading T1574.002 technique as
demonstrated in our examined cases.
The ShadowPad backdoor, which is popular among Asian APT
groups, is delivered to a victim's computer together with a
legitimate executable file. This is known as the Ingress Tool
Transfer T1105 technique. To download a payload to a host,
attackers use legitimate programs such as certutil.exe and
bitsadmin.exe, which are commonly used with the "Living off the
Land" technique to avoid detection.
The backdoor is started by creating a new service or a
scheduled task. After establishing a connection with the
command and control center, the backdoor runs a command
shell in which the operators remotely execute commands
to continue their attack. The attackers may conduct
reconnaissance, initiate lateral movement, and install additional
tools for the attack.
Pivoting T1572 If a compromised host resides in a network that is not accessible to an external attacker, Asian APT groups implement a technique known as pivoting. In other words, they use an accessible
host as a sort of "transfer terminal" to pivot to the otherwise
Discovery T1518
T1007
T1082
T1016
T1049
T1124
T1069
T1069.002
T1135
T1018
T1482
T1012
T1087
T1083
T1615
T1046
T1057
T1033
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 298
Privilege Escalation T1543 As we already described earlier, the primary way that Asian
T1543.003 APT groups elevate their privileges is by running a malicious
service. As an example, the PlugX backdoor, specifically the
XPlugService module, can access commands related to
Windows services. Its code was written specifically to request
the configuration of services, change the configuration of
services, and to start, manage, and delete services.
Execution T1059.003
T1059.001
T1047
T1569.002
T1106
Credential Access T1003
T1003.001
T1003.002
T1003.003
T1552
T1552.001
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Asian APT groups primarily use Windows services or scheduled
tasks to execute their payload. Attackers may also run a CMD
command shell to execute commands received from their C2
server. Asian APT groups also use Batch and PowerShell scripts
to automate their activities such as host discovery and data
collection.
Asian APT groups often resort to using the wmic utility and the
Wmiexec module from the popular Impacket framework.
When it comes to acquiring account credentials in a target infrastructure, Asian APT groups do not differ very much from other
groups. They use the same most popular set of techniques
related to the Credential Access TA0006 tactic. Naturally, this
primarily involves the OS Credential Dumping T1003 technique,
which includes dumping the Lsass.exe process, saving the SAM
registry hives, and obtaining the NTDS.dit file from the domain
controller.
One notable distinguishing feature of these groups is that they
normally choose account credential acquisition tools that are
popular only in the APAC region. However, these tools can still
be detected based on their tactics, techniques, and procedures
in accordance with David Bianco's Pyramid of Pain principle. In
the majority of the attacks that we observed, Asian APT groups
also search for account credentials that are revealed in cleartext within files and in various registry hives.
This phase allows Asian APT groups to access valuable account
credentials that can be used for further steps in an attack.
For example, they can use these credentials to spread further
throughout the infrastructure.
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 299
Lateral Movement T1021.002
T1570
T1091
T1080
T1550.002
Collection T1560
T1560.001
T1119
T1005
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
After obtaining the necessary account credentials, Asian APT
groups move through the victim's infrastructure and copy their
malicious samples to other systems. They primarily use the SMB
protocol to move between hosts.
As they move through the network, they immediately establish
persistence on remote systems by using a service or new task,
for example:
sc.exe \ create
schtasks.exe /create -s 
In addition, Asian APT groups use the popular modules
SMBExec, Atexec, Wmiexec, and PsExec from the Impacket
framework.
They also use RDP to connect to remote systems.
After attackers acquire freedom of action for lateral movement
through the infrastructure, they proceed to collect relevant
information and choose specific targets that can provide them
with the most valuable information. This valuable information
may include intellectual property, financial data, technical documentation, and other confidential data from all data sources
that they can reach.
First, they perform an automated search for all document formats on the infected machine, including .pdf, .doc, .docx, .xls,
and *.xlsx. In the overwhelming majority of the incidents that
we detected, Asian APT groups follow up this search by using
various archivers to gather data from the victim's computers.
Actors may use archivers that are already installed on the target
machine, or deliver archivers to it from the outside.
As we already described in the "Technical Details" section, one
of the distinguishing features in the procedures that we observed among Asian APT groups is their movement of archives
to the Recycle Bin (C:\$Recycle.Bin) before their subsequent
exfiltration.
In addition to collecting sensitive information as their ultimate
goal, attackers also collect intelligence on the network environment and write this data to individual text files for subsequent
exfiltration to an external network, thereby completing part of
their Discovery phase.
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 300
Exfiltration T1567
T1567.002
T1041
After collecting the relevant information, the attackers
compress this data and forward it to a server that is usually
acting as their command and control center. This is known as
the Exfiltration Over C2 Channel T1041 technique.
However, Threat Intelligence data can be used to successfully
block connections to the attacker's C2 server. For this reason,
attackers began using legitimate web services to evade
detection as part of the technique known as Exfiltration Over
Web Service T1567.
Asian APT groups create their own tools for data exfiltration
to cloud storage, including the following data storage services:
Dropbox, Google Drive, Yandex Disk. The arguments that
they pass with these tools include the archive path and the
authentication token for the specific service.
Impact T1486 When examining the typical Impact phase conducted by Asian
T1489 APT groups, we normally do not observe much aggressive
impact on the infrastructure. However, we have observed some
exceptional cases, such as an incident involving data encryption
on a target system in Argentina.
When starting their own services, Asian APT groups may also
query services that are already running in the target system and
stop them, which is known as the Service Stop T1489 technique.
However, this activity is not deliberately meant to inflict damage
on business processes.
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Analysis of attacker actions based on the Unified Kill Chain
Stage Technique Details
Contents 301
—
Objectives Based on our observations, the overwhelming majority of Asian
APT groups ultimately pursue the following goals:
Cyber-espionage:
The primary motivation of Asian APT groups is to acquire
sensitive information and technological data from other
governments, companies, or organizations. Examples of this
data may include intellectual property, trade secrets, patents,
and other data that can provide a competitive advantage.
Political and military objectives:
Some Asian APT groups may aim to capture government or
military information that could be used for political manipulation,
intelligence activity, or preparations for potential conflicts.
Economic interests:
Asian hackers may target companies engaged in specific
industries, such as finance, energy, telecommunications, or
others for the purpose of acquiring financial information that
could be used for commercial gains.
Financial motives:
In some cases, Asian APT groups may hack organizations for
financial benefit by stealing payment details or conducting
Ransomware attacks to demand ransom payments, for example.
Recommendations for the use of various security measures at the
stages of the Unified Kill Chain
Web
Application
Firewall (WAF)
Threat
Intelligence
(TI)
Endpoint
Protection
Platform (EPP)
Next
Generation
Firewall
(NGFW)
Secure Web
Gateway
(SWG)
Learn more
Distributed
Deception
Platform (DDP)
Endpoint
Detection
and Response
(EDR)
Learn more
Secure Email
Gateway (SEG)
Learn more Learn more
Security
Information
and Event
Management
(SIEM)
Data Leak
Prevention
(DLP)
Network
Traffic Analysis
(NTA)
Learn more Learn more Learn more
Modern Asian APT Groups: Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
Mitigation Contents 302