Main Findings
Advanced Cyber-espionage Network : The attackers have been active for at least several years,
focusing on diplomatic and governmental agencies of various countries across the world.
Information harvested from infected networks was reused in later attacks. For example, stolen credentials
were compiled in a list and used when the attackers needed to guess secret phrase in other locations. To
control the network of infected machines, the attackers created more than 60 domain names and several
server hosting locations in different countries (mainly Germany and Russia). The C&C infrastructure is
actually a chain of servers working as proxies and hiding the location of the 'mothership' control server.
Unique architecture : The attackers created a multi-functional kit which has a capability of quick
extension of the features that gather intelligence. The system is resistant to C&C server takeover and
allows the attack to recover access to infected machines using alternative communication channels.
Broad variety of targets : Beside traditional attack targets (workstations), the system is capable of
stealing data from mobile devices, such as smartphones (iPhone, Nokia, Windows Mobile), enterprise
network equipment (Cisco), removable disk drives (including already deleted files via a custom file
recovery procedure).
Importation of exploits : The samples we managed to find were using exploit code for vulnerabilities in
Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel that were created by other attackers and employed during different
cyber attacks. The attackers left the imported exploit code untouched, perhaps to harden the identification
process.
Attacker identification : Basing on registration data of C&C servers and numerous artifacts left in
executables of the malware, we strongly believe that the attackers have Russian-speaking origins. Current
attackers and executables developed by them have been unknown until recently, they have never related to
any other targeted cyberattacks.