Supply chain attacks
Software vendors were another "trendy target" in Q4. The most prominent incident
targeted SolarWinds clients, including the U.S. Department of State, Microsoft,
Cisco, and FireEye. In a supply chain attack, attackers penetrated the SolarWinds
network and added a malicious backdoor into updates for the company's Orion
platform. Around 18,000 clients installed the tainted update on their systems. Of
note, the attackers managed to steal penetration testing tools from cybersecurity
firm FireEye. The stolen software contains exploits for numerous vulnerabilities,
which attackers will likely leverage in future campaigns.
In November, domain name registrar GoDaddy fell victim to a phishing attack. The
attackers duped employees into changing registration records of several clients,
including cryptocurrency exchanges NiceHash and Liquid. The changes allowed
redirecting user traffic to attacker-controlled servers.
13
Social engineering
Malware use
Hacking
i
65%
i
54%
i
19%
i
Credential compromise
5%
i
Web attacks
3%
i
Other
8%
i
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
© Positive Technologies
Figure 14. Attack methods (percentage of attacks on IT companies)
Social engineering was especially popular in Q4, accounting for 65 percent of all
attacks against IT companies. In one such case, the website of Japanese game
developer Koei Tecmo was hacked and data for 65,000 users was stolen through
a phishing email sent to an employee. The threat actor attempted to sell access
(in the form of a backdoor) and a forum user database for $7,800. Five days later,
however, the database was posted online free of charge.
Another Japanese game giant, Capcom, was hit by Ragnar Locker ransomware in
early November. Capcom flatly denied that customer data had been accessed, but
the ransomware operators published confirmation on their website. The criminals
stole personal information of Capcom employees (including former employees),
such as passport information, as well as data for customers and business part
ners, sales reports, development documents, and other confidential information.
Ransomware attacks on IT companies did not stop there. In late December, hack-
ing group Pay2Key attacked Israeli cybersecurity firm Portnox. Before encrypting
the IT infrastructure, the group stole confidential information, including documents
related to Portnox's clients. They even published a security audit of Elbit, a major
Israeli defense company. A total of 1 TB of data was stolen.
Software AG, Germany's second-largest software vendor, fell victim to a Clop
ransomware attack. Company files and employee information were compromised.
The criminals demanded a $23 million ransom for non-disclosure of the stolen data.
i
14