Flame/ Flamer/ Skywiper
Flame is a modular malware discovered in 2012 by MAHER Center of Iranian National,
Kaspersky Lab, Iran’s CERT, and CrySyS Lab of Budapest University of Technology and
Economics. Flame may have been active for 2-5 years prior to its 2012 discovery. Initially,
malware targeted the Microsoft Windows operating system of computers that supported the
Iranian nuclear program. However, Iran discovered the malware after detecting a cyber
campaign against its oil industry.
Flame is a large piece of modular malware, designed to map and monitor the target
network. Flame is about 20 megabytes of code. For comparison, it is ~20 times the size of
Stuxnet; though, Flame is entirely focused on espionage and is considered a predecessor to
Stuxnet. The malware leverages the victim’s network to provide the adversary with a steady
52
stream of exfiltrated data that can be used to inform cyber and cyber-physical campaign
decisions. Flame is too large and too complex to be anything except state-sponsored malware.
Because of its alleged purpose, the Flame malware is attributed to a joint development
program between the NSA, the CIA, and the Israeli military. Flame may have been part of a
classified operation meant to monitor and slow Iran’s nuclear program, code-named Olympic
Games.
To the credit of the allegations, the Stuxnet malware was developed under similar
circumstances and for similar purposes. In fact, Flame contains some of the same code as
Stuxnet. According to Kaspersky senior researcher Roel Schouwenberg, “It’s very likely it’s two
teams working effectively on the same program but using two very different approaches.”
Supposedly, the campaign against Iranian oil industry, which led to the exposure of Flame, was
a unilateral operation launched by Israel, without informing their American counterparts.
Kaspersky detected Flame malware infections in Iran, Israel, Sudan, Syria, Lebanon,
Saudi Arabia, and Egypt. Significantly fewer infected systems were detected in Europe or North
America. Infected systems belonged to state-related organizations, educational institutions,
and individuals. Systems were compromised via spear phishing attacks, infected websites,
infected USB devices, and other infected systems on the local area network. Flame targeted
emails, documents, AutoCAD drawings, instant messenger logs, and Skype conversations.
Flame is one of the first malware complex enough to be considered an attack toolkit.
For years, Flame evaded detection by masquerading as a Microsoft software update. Flame
creates its own backdoor, operates like a Trojan, and replicates across the local network and
removable media like a worm. Flame contains many different libraries for compression (zlib,
libbz2, and ppmd), for encryption (five methods total), for database manipulation (sqlite3),
and a Lua virtual machine. The virtual machine is included to integrate components of Flame
with C and C++ code on the host machine. Flame also contains local databases with nested SQL
queries, Windows Incident Management scripting, batch scripting, and other features.
Flame set the precedent for the typical espionage malware capabilities. Flame can log
keystrokes, it can activate microphones to capture audio, it can activate cameras to capture
video, it can extract geolocation data from images, and it can screenshot the display. Recorded
data is compressed via a public-source library and periodically sent through the malware
operator’s C&C infrastructure through a covert SSL channel. Other data is similarly exfiltrated.
Flame is unique (at least for 2012) in that it can activate and use Bluetooth wireless to send
and receive commands and data. Through Bluetooth, infected machines can be turned into
beacons or used to detect nearby Bluetooth enabled devices. Like Stuxnet, Flame can infect
53
other systems on the network through shared connections such as printers. Flame can also
spread to air-gapped networks via a USB drive.
The malware detects the antivirus on the host system and configures its modules and
file names so that it has the greatest probability of remaining undetected. The malware also
protects its modules with READ, WRITE, and EXECUTE permissions to make them inaccessible
to user-made applications. Flame employed fake Microsoft licensing certificates to make
discovered modules appear legitimate. Finally, Flame includes a Kill module that discretely
removes the malware from infected systems. After public disclosure of the malware, the
operators sent the kill command and removed the malware from many high profile hosts;
thereby obfuscating the actual breadth of the campaign.