C&C servers
During our research into Operation Groundbait we have observed a number of
C&C server domain names and IP addresses. Most of them are located in Ukraine
and are hosted by Ukrainian hosting providers. Appendix B contains a more com
prehensive listing.
One of the C&C servers, gils.ho[.]ua has been in operation since 2008, accord
ing to information from the hosting company. In order to hide their illegal activity,
the attackers created a bogus website. The website is dedicated to the capital of
Ukraine—Kiev.
Figure 31. Bogus website created by attackers.
During our investigation we obtained access to an Operation Groundbait C&C
server that was misconfigured and allowed a public directory listing.
Figure 32. Operation Groundbait C&C server Figure 33. The internal directory structure
directory listing. of a subfolder.
At one point, the root directory contained 33 subdirectories, with an individual
folder for each victim. This means that the server was used to control 33 Priko
rmka-infected computers. The name of each sub-folder contains an Operator ID,
a Campaign ID and the architecture of the infected device.
Each folder contains two sub-folders with the following names: data and util.
The first folder contains encrypted exfiltrated data and the second folder has
encrypted Prikormka modules.
Operation Groundbait: Analysis of a surveillance toolkit 23
In addition to the data and util folders, each victim-specific subfolder contained
two plain-text log files: journal and log, revealing interesting findings about the
malware operators and their victims.
The log file contains the communication log between the server and the infected
computer: specifically, the IP address of the infected computer, date and time, type
of request (GET or POST), the size of request, and the status of Prikormka modules
(in cases where it is a GET request).
Figure 34. The content of one log file located on the Operation Groundbait C&C server.
The journal file contains the communication log between the server and the
malware operator. The communication log contains the IP address of the operator,
the date, time, and type of request. It should be noted that once downloaded by
the malware operator, the file with exfiltrated data gets removed from the server.
Figure 35. The content of the journal file located on an Operation Groundbait C&C server.
According to our analysis of the communication logs from one server there were
33 victims, located mostly in Eastern Ukraine. In addition to those, there were
a few victims located in Russia or in Kiev, Ukraine.
The analysis of logs revealed that several malware operators connected to the
server using various internet service providers in Kiev and Mariupol. Some of them
accessed the C&C via the Tor network.
Operation Groundbait: Analysis of a surveillance toolkit 24