3. OPERATION
3.1 Victimology
Following our analysis, ESET conducted internet-wide scans in an effort to find victims of Kobalos.
Our fingerprint leverages a specific behavior of the backdoor that occurs when a TCP connection
is established with a compromised host from a specific source port.
One of the surprising things about this threat, given its sophistication, is the very limited number
of victims we could find. Targets, however, don’t seem to be random and tend to be high-performance
computers (HPC) and servers that are part of academic and research networks. One of the HPCs
has no less than 512GB of RAM and almost a petabyte of storage. We also uncovered other high-profile
victims such as an endpoint security software vendor (not ourselves!).
Figure 1 is a map of the regions and industries of the victims we found.
Figure 1 // Industry and region of compromised organizations
Some organizations had multiple servers compromised.
We notified all victims we identified and worked with them to remediate. We would like to thank
all victims who replied and shared information that helped us in this research.
7 A wild Kobalos appears Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs TLP: WHITE
3.2 Initial compromise vector
We do not have firsthand knowledge of how systems were compromised to gain administrative access
to install the Kobalos backdoor on them. We can only speculate based on the forensic artifacts we collected
while assisting victims.
On compromised machines whose system administrators were able to investigate further, we discovered
that an SSH credential stealer was present in the form of a trojanized OpenSSH client. The ~~/usr/bin/ssh~~
file was replaced with a modified executable that recorded username, password and target hostname, and
wrote them to an encrypted file. Thus, we believe that credential stealing could be one of the ways Kobalos
propagates. It could also explain why many academic networks were compromised; if one of those system’s
SSH clients was used by students or researchers from multiple universities, it could have leaked credentials
to all these third-party systems.
Another possible entry point could be exploitation of a known vulnerability. Some of the compromised
machines ran old, unsupported, or unpatched operating systems and software. While the use
of an undisclosed vulnerability isn’t impossible, a known exploit is more likely in this situation.
3.3 High performance computer networks under attack
ESET shared information with organizations, such as the CERN Computer Security Team, who played
an instrumental role in handling the incidents at research and academic sites. What these organizations
could confirm is that between the end of 2019 and mid-2020, a wave of three different attacks targeted
the HPC community. Some have been reported publicly .
After many months of investigations, it remains unclear whether these three campaigns are connected
or a surprising coincidence. On one hand, operations seem to leverage different tactics, techniques (TTPs)
and levels of sophistication. On the other hand, it seems odd that there is an overlap in some of the
IP addresses used to launch the different attacks.


The earliest campaign used Kobalos, the malware described in this research.


The second campaign appears to have focused on cryptocurrency mining by leveraging


a totally different toolset.

The third campaign was the most widespread, yet no payload was identified.

Partial indicators of compromise for the second and third attacks were published by the European
Grid Infrastructure Computer Security Incident Response Team (EGI CSIRT) as incident #EGI20200421
and #EGI2020512 respectively.
It is not clear why the HPC community is overly represented among the victims of these attacks.
HPC centers are obviously interesting targets but typically less easily accessible than other academic servers.
Through a fully community-based, distributed incident response process, CERN and other incident response
teams involved observed a number of legacy designs and suboptimal security practices that played a key
role in enabling the attackers to spread their attacks. Additionally, most HPC victims were poorly prepared
for forensics, in particular with regard to traceability.
3.4 Overview of Kobalos
Kobalos has multiple features to access the compromised systems and hide the tracks of its usage.
Access to the compromised system
First, the Kobalos malware contains generic commands to read from and write to the file system and spawn
a terminal to execute arbitrary commands. Unfortunately, it doesn’t contain any specific payload that could
indicate the intentions of its authors. The operators likely open a shell through the terminal and perform
whatever commands they need to.
8 A wild Kobalos appears Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs TLP: WHITE
Reachability
Second, there are numerous functionalities related to establishing network connectivity between
the operators and the running Kobalos malware. It supports multiple ways to make itself reachable
from the outside:


By opening a TCP port and waiting for an incoming connection (sometimes called a passive backdoor).


By connecting to another instance of Kobalos configured to run as C&C server.


By waiting for connections to an already running, legitimate service but coming from a specific


TCP source port.
That last option requires replacing the running service with one containing the Kobalos code.
In all cases we’ve seen for this method, they have chosen to modify the running OpenSSH server.
The ~~sshd~~ file was completely replaced, so the malware is persistent across service or system restarts.
Authentication and network encryption
Third, triggering the backdoor requires its clients to authenticate. Clients must possess an RSA-512 private
key and a password. Once both are validated, Kobalos generates and encrypts two 16-byte keys with the
RSA-512 public key and sends them to the attackers. These two keys are used to RC4 encrypt subsequent
inbound and outbound traffic.
Alternate port
Fourth, during the authentication phase, the operator can choose to continue the communication
on another TCP connection. When asked, Kobalos will start listening on the requested TCP port and the rest
of the communication will use that connection. Data going through this channel is encrypted using
the RC4 keys previously exchanged during authentication.
Proxying to other compromised machines
Fifth, Kobalos can also be used as a proxy to connect other servers compromised with Kobalos. It is not
a generic TCP proxy; it expects communication to be encapsulated in packets specific to this threat. It also
supports the alternate port option mentioned above: a command can be sent to the proxy to “switch”
the connection to a new TCP port.
Proxies can be chained, which means the operators can use multiple Kobalos-compromised machines
to reach their targets.
9 A wild Kobalos appears Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs TLP: WHITE
Putting it all together
Figure 2 provides an overview of the different features of Kobalos.
Operator
|1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
Scenario 1 Scenario 2
Scenario 3
Server A is used to proxy
connection to Server C.
Direct connection
to the backdoor.
Server B uses Server A
as C&C server.
Figure 2 // Overview of Kobalos features and ways to access them
Figure 2 also shows different possible scenarios where the operators try to reach compromised servers.
The first is a simple direct connection to a compromised server to access its resources. In the example above,
the backdoor is running inside a compromised OpenSSH server process and expects the connection to have
a source port. Communication with the backdoor requires the right TCP source port from the operator.
The second one is perhaps the trickiest, but also one of the most unique features of Kobalos. Its operators
have the ability to start a C&C server from any of the servers running the malware. It doesn’t require
additional code: everything is in the malware already. Once started, it will manage a list of connected bots
giving the operator the ability to connect to any of them. Authentication is still required on the final node
and end-to-end encryption is enforced using the exchanged RC4 keys. For this scheme to work, the Kobalos
malware sample running on Server B needs to have in its configuration the IP address and port of the C&C
server running on Server A. From the perspective of Server B, it will only see traffic to and from Server A,
hiding the IP address of the operator.
In the third scenario, Server A is used as a proxy to connect to Server C. Again, authentication
and end-to-end encryption is enforced. The proxying functionality allows the operator to set the source
port of the connection from Server A to Server C. This means it can be used to connect to Kobalos instances
that expect a specific source port when connecting.
10 A wild Kobalos appears Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs TLP: WHITE