Windows Win32k.sys Local Privilege Escalation (MS10-073)
Stuxnet exploited a 0-day vulnerability in win32k.sys, used for local privilege escalation. The vulnerability was
patched on October 12, 2010. The vulnerability resides in code that calls a function in a function pointer table;
however, the index into the table is not validated properly allowing code to be called outside of the function
table.
The installation routine in Export 15, extracts and executes Resource 250, which contains a DLL that invokes the
local privilege escalation exploit. The DLL contains a single export—Tml_1. The code first verifies that the execu­
tion environment isn’t a 64-bit system and is Windows XP or Windows 2000.
If the snsm7551.tmp file exists execution ceases, otherwise the file ~DF540C.tmp is created, which provides an
in-work marker.
Next, win32k.sys is loaded into memory and the vulnerable function table pointer is found. Next, Stuxnet will ex­
amine the DWORDs that come after the function table to find a suitable DWORD to overload as a virtual address
that will be called. When passing in an overly large index into the function table, execution will transfer to code
residing at one of the DWORDs after the function table. These DWORDs are just data used elsewhere in win32k.
sys, but hijacked by Stuxnet. For example, if the ASCII string ‘aaaa’ (DWORD 0x60606060) is located after the
function table, Stuxnet will allocate shellcode at address 0x60606060 and then pass in an overly large function
table index that points to the DWORD ‘aaaa’ (0x60606060).
Because the available space at the address (in the above example 0x60606060) may be limited, Stuxnet uses
a two stage shellcode strategy. Memory is allocated for the main shellcode and at the chosen hijacked address,
Stuxnet only places a small piece of shellcode that will jump to the main shellcode.
Next, Stuxnet drops a malformed keyboard layout file into the Temp directory with the file name ~DF.
tmp. The malformed keyboard layout file contains a byte that will result in the overly large index into the func­
tion table. NtUserLoadKeyboardLayoutEx is called to load the malformed keyboard layout file successfully invok­
ing the exploit. The original keyboard layout is restored and then the malformed keyboard layout file is deleted.
The shellcode then loads the main Stuxnet DLL in the context of CSRSS.EXE.