Middle East
The last three months have been very interesting for this region, especially considering the
multiple leaks of alleged Iranian activity that were published within just a few weeks of each other.
Even more interesting is the possibility that one of the leaks may have been part of a
disinformation campaign carried out with the help of the Sofacy/Hades actor.
In March, someone going by the handle Dookhtegan or Lab_dookhtegan started posting
messages on Twitter using the hashtag #apt34. Several files were shared via Telegram that
supposedly belonged to the OilRig threat actor. They included logins and passwords of several
alleged hacking victims, tools, infrastructure details potentially related to different intrusions, the
résumés of the alleged attackers and a list of web shells – apparently relating to the period 2014
18.
The targeting and TTPs are consistent with this threat actor, but it was impossible to confirm the
origins of the tools included in the dump. Assuming that the data in the dump is accurate, it also
shows the global reach of the OilRig group, which has generally been thought to operate primarily
in the Middle East.
On April 22, an entity going by the alias Bl4ck_B0X created a Telegram channel named
GreenLeakers. The purpose of the channel, as stated by its creator, was to publish information
about the members of the MuddyWater APT group, “along with information about their mother
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ and spouse and etc.”, for free. In addition to this free information, the Bl4ck_B0X actor(s) also 4/8
hinted that “highly confidential” information related to MuddyWater would be put up for sale.
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
On April 27, three screenshots were posted in the GreenLeakers Telegram channel, containing
alleged screenshots from a MuddyWater C2 server. On May 1, the channel was closed to the
public and its status changed to private. This was before Bl4ck_B0X had the chance to publish
the promised information on the MuddyWater group. The reason for the closure is still unclear.
Finally, a website named Hidden Reality published leaks allegedly related to an entity named the
Iranian RANA institute. It was the third leak in two months disclosing details of alleged Iranian
threat actors and groups.
Interestingly, this leak differed from the others by employing a website that allows anyone to
browse the leaked documents. It also relies on Telegram and Twitter profiles to post messages
related to Iranian CNO capabilities. The Hidden Reality website contains internal documents, chat
messages and other data related to the RANA institute’s CNO (Computer Network Operations)
capabilities, as well as information about victims. Previous leaks were focused more on tools,
source code and individual actor profiles.
Close analysis of the materials, the infrastructure and the dedicated website used by the leakers,
provided clues that led us to believe Sofacy/Hades may be connected to these leaks.
There was also other Muddywater activity unrelated to the leak, as well as discoveries linked to
previous activity by the group, such as ClearSky’s discovery of two domains hacked by
MuddyWater at the end of 2018 to host the code of its POWERSTATS malware.
In April, Cisco Talos published its analysis of the BlackWater campaign, related to MuddyWater
activity. The campaign shows how the attackers added three distinct steps to their operations,
allowing them to bypass certain security controls to evade detection: an obfuscated VBA script to
establish persistence as a registry key, a PowerShell stager and FruityC2 agent script, and an
open source framework on GitHub to further enumerate the host machine. This could allow the
attackers to monitor web logs and determine whether someone outside the campaign has made a
request to their server in an attempt to investigate the activity. Once the enumeration commands
run, the agent communicates with a different C2 and sends back data in the URL field. Trend
Micro also reported MuddyWater’s use of a new multi-stage PowerShell-based backdoor called
POWERSTATS v3.
We published a private report about four Android malware families and their use of false flag
techniques, among other things. One of the campaigns sent spear-phishing emails to a university
in Jordan and the Turkish government, using compromised legitimate accounts to trick victims
into installing malware.
Regarding other groups, we discovered new activity related to ZooPark, a cyber-espionage threat
actor that has focused mainly on stealing data from Android devices. Our new findings include
new malicious samples and additional infrastructure that has been deployed since 2016. This also
led to us discovering Windows malware implants deployed by the same threat actor. The
additional indicators we found shed some light on the targets of past campaigns, including Iranian
Kurds – mainly political dissidents and activists.
Recorded Future published an analysis of the infrastructure built by APT33 (aka Elfin) to target
Saudi organizations. Following the exposure of a wide range of their infrastructure and operations
by Symantec in March, researchers at Recorded Future discovered that APT33, or closely
aligned actors, reacted by either parking or reassigning some of their domain infrastructure. The
fact that this activity was executed just a day or so after the report went live suggests the Iranian
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2019/91897/ threat actors are acutely aware of the media coverage of their activities and are resourceful 5/8
enoughtobeabletoreactinaquickmannerSincethentheattackershavecontinuedtousea
8/8/2019 APT trends report Q2 2019 | Securelist
large swath of operational infrastructure, well in excess of 1,200 domains, with many observed
communicating with 19 different commodity RAT implants. An interesting development appears to
be their increased preference for njRAT, with over half of the observed suspected APT33
infrastructure being linked to njRAT deployment.
On a more political level, there were several news stories covering Iranian activity.
A group connected to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard has been blamed for a wave of cyber-
attacks against UK national infrastructure, including the Post Office, local government networks,
private companies and banks. Personal data of thousands of employees were stolen. It is
believed that the same group was also responsible for the attack on the UK parliamentary
network in 2017. The UK NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) is providing assistance to
affected organizations.
Microsoft recently obtained a court order in the US to seize control of 99 websites used by the
Iranian hacking group APT35 (aka Phosphorus and Charming Kitten). The threat actor used
spoofed websites, including those of Microsoft and Yahoo, to conduct cyberattacks against
businesses, government agencies, journalists and activists who focus on Iran. The sinkholing of
these sites will force the group to recreate part of its infrastructure.
The US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has reported an increase in
cyberattacks by Iranian actors or proxies, targeting US industries and government agencies using
destructive wiper tools. The statement was posted on Twitter by CISA director, Chris Krebs.