Hungry for data, ModPipe backdoor hits POS software used in hospitality sector
welivesecurity.com /2020/11/12/hungry-data-modpipe-backdoor-hits-pos-software-hospitality-sector
November 12, 2020
Backdoor authors show deep knowledge of the targeted POS software, decrypting database
passwords from Windows registry values
Martin Smolár
12 Nov 2020 - 11:30AM
ESET researchers have discovered ModPipe, a modular backdoor that gives its operators
access to sensitive information stored in devices running ORACLE MICROS Restaurant
Enterprise Series (RES) 3700 POS – a management software suite used by hundreds of
thousands of bars, restaurants, hotels and other hospitality establishments worldwide.
What makes the backdoor distinctive are its downloadable modules and their capabilities.
One of them – named GetMicInfo – contains an algorithm designed to gather database
passwords by decrypting them from Windows registry values. This shows that the
backdoor’s authors have deep knowledge of the targeted software and opted for this
sophisticated method instead of collecting the data via a simpler yet “louder” approach,
such as keylogging.
Exfiltrated credentials allow ModPipe’s operators access to database contents, including
various definitions and configuration, status tables and information about POS
transactions.
However, based on the documentation of RES 3700 POS, the attackers should not be able to
access some of the most sensitive information – such as credit card numbers and expiration
dates – which is protected by encryption. The only customer data stored in the clear and
thus available to the attackers should be cardholder names.
https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/11/12/hungry-data-modpipe-backdoor-hits-pos-software-hospitality-sector/ 1/22
11/13/2020 Hungry for data, ModPipe backdoor hits POS software used in hospitality sector | WeLiveSecurity
This would limit the amount of valuable information viable for further sale or misuse,
making the full “business model” behind the operation unclear. One possible explanation is
that another downloadable module exists that allows the malware operators to decrypt the
more sensitive data in the user’s database.
According to the documentation, to achieve this the attackers would have to reverse
engineer the generation process of the “site-specific passphrase”, which is used to derive the
encryption key for sensitive data. This process would then have to be implemented into the
module and – due to use of the Windows Data Protection API (DPAPI) – executed directly
on the victim’s machine. Another remaining unknown is ModPipe’s distribution method.
The majority of the identified targets were from the United States, with indications that
they were in the restaurant and hospitality sectors – the primary customers of RES 3700
POS.