Wipers attacking Saudi organizations and beyond
Beginning in November 2016, Kaspersky Lab observed a new wave of wiper attacks directed at
multiple targets in the Middle East. The malware used in the new attacks was a variant of the
infamous Shamoon worm that targeted Saudi Aramco and Rasgas back in 2012.
Dormant for four years, one of the most mysterious wipers in history has returned.
So far, we have observed three waves of attacks of the Shamoon 2.0 malware, activated on 17
November 2016, 29 November 2016 and 23 January 2017.
Also known as Disttrack, Shamoon is a highly destructive malware family that effectively wipes
the victim machine. A group known as the Cutting Sword of Justice took credit for the Saudi
Aramco attack by posting a Pastebin message on the day of the attack (back in 2012), and
justified the attack as a measure against the Saudi monarchy.
The Shamoon 2.0 attacks observed since November 2016 have targeted organizations in
various critical and economic sectors in Saudi Arabia. Just like the previous variant, the
Shamoon 2.0 wiper aims for the mass destruction of systems inside targeted organizations.
The new attacks share many similarities with the 2012 wave, though featuring new tools and
techniques. During the first stage, the attackers obtain administrator credentials for the victim’s
network. Next, they build a custom wiper (Shamoon 2.0) which leverages these credentials to
spread widely inside the organization. Finally, on a predefined date, the wiper activates,
rendering the victim’s machines completely inoperable. It should be noted that the final stages
of the attacks have their activity completely automated, without the need for communication with
the command and control center.
While investigating the Shamoon 2.0 attacks, Kaspersky Lab also discovered a previously
unknown wiper malware which appears to be targeting organizations in Saudi Arabia. We’re
calling this new wiper StoneDrill . StoneDrill has several “style” similarities to Shamoon, with
multiple interesting factors and techniques to allow for the better evasion of detection. In
addition to suspected Saudi targets, one victim of StoneDrill was observed on the Kaspersky
Security Network (KSN) in Europe. This makes us believe the threat actor behind StoneDrill is
expanding its wiping operations from the Middle East to Europe.
To summarize some of the characteristics of the new wiper attacks, for both Shamoon and
StoneDrill:


Shamoon 2.0 includes a fully functional ransomware module, in addition to its common
wiping functionality.


Shamoon 2.0 has both 32-bit and 64-bit components.


The Shamoon samples we analyzed in January 2017 do not implement any command
and control (C&C) communication; previous ones included a basic C&C functionality that


referenced local servers in the victim’s network.


StoneDrill makes heavy use of evasion techniques to avoid sandbox execution.


While Shamoon embeds Arabic-Yemen resource language sections, StoneDrill embeds
mostly Persian resource language sections. Of course, we do not exclude the possibility
of false flags.


StoneDrill does not use drivers during deployment (unlike Shamoon) but relies on


memory injection of the wiping module into the victim’s preferred browser.

Several similarities exist between Shamoon and StoneDrill.

● Multiple similarities were found between StoneDrill and previously analysed NewsBeef
attacks.
What is new in this report?
This report provides new insights into the Shamoon 2.0 and StoneDrill attacks, including:

The discovery techniques and strategies we used for Shamoon and StoneDrill.
Details on the ransomware functionality found in Shamoon 2.0. This functionality is

currently inactive but could be used in future attacks.
3. Details on the newly found StoneDrill functions, including its destructive capabilities
(even with limited user privileges).
4. Details on the similarities between malware styles and malware components’ source
code found in Shamoon, StoneDrill and NewsBeef.