Safe Computing Habits
With the proliferation of Web-based attacks vector and the increase in global Internet usage, it is
more important than ever to be cautious to ensure safety online. Security is a process. To be se
cure, you must be aware, apply the right technology, understand your daily computing activity and
identify the amount of information or data you want to secure.
Let the Technology Work For You
Here are some easy steps and reminder to ensure that your CA security products provides optimal
protection for you.


Your security scanner must be always turned on and up-to-date with the latest signature. Real
time scanning protects you from possible infection that you may get from compromised Websites, network shares, email and flash drives.


Turn on your firewall. Your firewall provides a different layer of security that guards you from


network attacks and blocks unauthorized access to your machine. A firewall with real-time malware behavior intrusion detection could prevent or lessen the impact of malware infection.


Turn on Data Execution Prevention (DEP). This feature is available in Windows XP SP3, Win
dows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Vista and Windows 7. Refer Microsoft instruction on how to configure memory protection in Windows XP SP 2 at
              [http://technet.microsoft.com/en](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc700810.aspx) us/library/cc700810.aspx



Increase your browser security settings. You can refer CERT Web browser security tips at


http://www.cert.org/tech_tips/securing_browser
Be Security-Aware

Do NOT open email from people you don’t know. Think twice and verify before clicking a URL or

open an attachment. Don’t be click happy! All it takes is a moment of inattention.

Implement strong password. Refer to these Microsoft Tips for creating a strong password:

http://www.microsoft.com/protect/yourself/password/create.mspx

When conducting online banking or financial transaction, make sure your browser connection is

secure.


Encrypt online communication and confidential data.


Back up your important data. Keep a copy of all your files and store them separately.


Be cautious about instant messaging. Avoid chatting with people you don’t know, especially if


they ask for personal information such as photos or want you to do something for them.

Protect your identity while enjoying online social networking activities. Be wary of clicking links or

suspicious profiles. Double-check the integrity of the connection or friend request before adding
anyone to your network. Avoid installing extras such as third-party applications; they may lead to
malware infection, or attackers could use them to steal your identity.

Avoid piracy by downloading from secure sources.

CA ISBU-ISI WHITE PAPER: IN-DEPTH ANALYSIS OF HYDRAQ 29

Avoid threats that use social engineering techniques by checking user feedback about a Web

site before visiting it, and reader feedback about an application before installing it.

If you are using Adobe PDF Reader, prevent your default browser from automatically opening

PDF document. Refer to our CA Security Advisor research blog entry at
http://community.ca.com/blogs/securityadvisor/archive/2009/02/24/attackers-love-zero-day.asp
x


Check for and install security updates regularly.


Be careful with search engine results. Read them carefully and check to ensure that the con
tent relates to your subject before clicking the Web site link.

