Chinese-speaking activity
While investigating a recent rise of attacks against Exchange servers, we noticed a
recurring cluster of activity that appeared in several distinct compromised networks. This
cluster stood out because it used a formerly unknown Windows kernel mode rootkit and a
sophisticated multi-stage malware framework aimed at providing remote control over the
attacked servers. The former is used to hide the user mode malware’s artefacts from
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 2/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
investigators and security solutions, while demonstrating an interesting loading scheme
involving the kernel mode component of an open source project named “Cheat Engine” to
bypass the Windows Driver Signature Enforcement mechanism. We were able to
determine that this toolset had been in use from as early as July 2020; and that the threat
actor was mostly focused on Southeast Asian targets, including several governmental
entities and telecoms companies. Since this was a long-standing operation, with highprofile victims, an advanced toolset and no affinity to a known threat actor, we decided to
name the underlying cluster “GhostEmperor”.
APT31 (aka ZIRCONIUM) is a Chinese-speaking intrusion set. This threat actor set up an
ORB (Operational Relay Boxes) infrastructure, composed of several compromised SOHO
routers, to target entities based in Europe (and perhaps elsewhere). As of the publication
of our report in May, we had seen these ORBs used to relay Cobalt Strike communications
and for anonymization proxying purposes. It is likely that APT31 uses them for other
implants and ends as well (for example, exploit or malware staging). Most of the
infrastructure put in place by APT31 comprises compromised Pakedge routers (RK1, RE1
and RE2). This little-known constructor specializes in small enterprise routers and
network devices. So far, we don’t know which specific vulnerability has been exploited by
the intrusion set to compromise the routers. Nor do we currently possess telemetry that
would provide further visibility into this campaign. We will, of course, continue to track
these activities.
Following our previous report on EdwardsPheasant, DomainTools and BitDefender
published articles about malicious activities against targets in Southeast Asia which we
believe, with medium to high confidence, are parts of EdwardsPheasant campaigns.
While tracking the activities of this threat actor, analyzing samples discovered or
provided by third parties, and investigating from public IoCs, we discovered an updated
DropPhone implant, an additional implant loaded by FoundCore’s shellcode, several
possible new infection documents and malicious domain names, as well as additional
targets. While we do not believe we have a complete picture of this set of activities yet, our
report this quarter marks a significant step further in understanding its extent.
A Chinese-speaking APT compromised a certificate authority in Mongolia and replaced
digital certificate management client software with a malicious downloader in February.
We are tracking this group as BountyGlad. Related infrastructure was identified and used
in multiple other incidents: interesting related activity included server-side attacks on
WebSphere and WebLogic services in Hong Kong; and on the client-side, Trojanized
Flash Player installers. The group demonstrated an increase in strategic sophistication
with this supply-chain attack. While replacing a legitimate installer on a high value
website like a certificate authority requires a medium level of skill and coordination, the
technical sophistication is not on par with ShadowHammer. And while the group deploys
fairly interesting, but simplistic, steganography to cloak its shellcode, we think it was
probably generated with code that has been publicly available for years. Previous activity
also connected with this group relied heavily on spear-phishing and Cobalt Strike
throughout 2020. Some activity involved PowerShell commands and loader variants
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 3/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
different from the downloaders presented in our recent report. In addition to spearphishing, the group appears to rely on publicly available exploits to penetrate unpatched
target systems. They use implants and C2 (Command and Control) code that are a mix of
both publicly available and privately shared across multiple Chinese-speaking APTs. We
are able to connect infrastructure across multiple incidents. Some of those were focused
on Western targets in 2020. Some of the infrastructure listed in an FBI Flash alert
published in May 2020, targeting US organizations conducting COVID-19 research, was
also used by BountyGlad.
While investigating users infected with the TPCon backdoor, previously discussed in a
private report, we detected loaders which are part of a new multi-plugin malware
framework that we named “QSC”, which allows attackers to load and run plugins inmemory. We attribute the use of this framework to Chinese-speaking groups, based on
some overlaps in victimology and infrastructure with other known tools used by these
groups. We have so far observed the malware loading a Command shell and File Manager
plugins in-memory. We believe the framework has been used in the wild since April 2020,
based on the compilation timestamp of the oldest sample found. However, our telemetry
suggests that the framework is still in use: the latest activity we detected was in March
this year.
Earlier this month, Rostelecom Solar and NCIRCC issued a joint public report describing
a series of attacks against networks of government entities in Russia. The report
described a formerly unknown actor leveraging an infection chain that leads to the
deployment of two implants – WebDav-O and Mail-O. Those, in conjunction with other
post-exploitation activity, have led to network-wide infections in the targeted
organizations that resulted in exfiltration of sensitive data. We were able to trace the
WebDav-O implant’s activity in our telemetry to at least 2018, indicating government
affiliated targets based in Belarus. Based on our investigation, we were able to find
additional variants of the malware and observe some of the commands executed by the
attackers on the compromised machines.
We discovered a cluster of activity targeting telecom operators within a specific region.
The bulk of this activity took place from May to October 2020. This activity made use of
several malware families and tools; but the infrastructure, a staging directory, and incountry target profiles tie them together. The actors deployed a previously unknown
passive backdoor, that we call “TPCon”, as a primary implant. It was later used to perform
both reconnaissance within target organizations and to deploy a post-compromise toolset
made up mostly of publicly available tools. We also found other previously unknown
active backdoors, that we call “evsroin”, used as secondary implants. Another interesting
find was a related loader (found in a staging directory) that loaded a KABA1 implant
variant. KABA1 was an implant used against targets throughout the South China Sea that
we attributed to the Naikon APT back in 2016. On another note, on the affected hosts we
found additional multiple malware families shared by Chinese-speaking actors, such as
ShadowPad and Quarian backdoors. These did not seem to be directly connected to the
TPCon/evsroin incidents because the supporting infrastructure appeared to be
https://securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q2-2021/103517/ 4/12
9/11/21, 8:29 PM APT trends report Q2 2021 | Securelist
completely separate. One of the ShadowPad samples appears to have been detected in
2020, while the others were detected well before that, in 2019. Besides the Naikon tie, we
found some overlaps with previously reported IceFog and IamTheKing activities.