Executive Summary
For three years, Unit 42 has tracked a set of cyber espionage attack campaigns across Asia,
which used a mix of publicly available and custom malware. Unit 42 created the moniker
“PKPLUG” for the threat actor group, or groups, behind these and other documented attacks
referenced later in this report. We say group or groups as our current visibility doesn’t allow us to
determine with high confidence if this is the work of one group, or more than one group which
uses the same tools and has the same tasking. The name comes from the tactic of delivering
PlugX malware inside ZIP archive files as part of a DLL side-loading package. The ZIP file format
contains the ASCII magic-bytes “PK” in its header, hence PKPLUG.
While tracking these attackers, Unit 42 discovered additional, mostly custom malware families
being used by PKPLUG beyond that of just PlugX. The additional payloads include HenBox, an
Android app, and Farseer, a Windows backdoor. The attackers also use the 9002 Trojan, which is
believed to be shared among a small subset of attack groups. Other publicly available malware
seen in relation to PKPLUG activity includes Poison Ivy and Zupdax.
During our investigations and research into these attacks, we were able to relate previous attacks
documented by others that date back as far back as six years ago. Unit 42 incorporates these
findings, together with our own, under the moniker PKPLUG and continue to track accordingly.
It’s not entirely clear as to the ultimate objectives of PKPLUG, but installing backdoor Trojan
implants on victim systems, including mobile devices, infers tracking victims and gathering
information is a key goal.
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/pkplug_chinese_cyber_espionage_group_attacking_asia/ 1/9
10/4/2019 PKPLUG: Chinese Cyber Espionage Group Attacking Asia
We believe victims lay mainly in and around the Southeast Asia region, particularly Myanmar,
Taiwan, Vietnam, and Indonesia; and likely also in various other areas in Asia, such as Tibet,
Xinjiang, and Mongolia. Based on targeting, content in some of the malware and ties to
infrastructure previously documented publicly as being linked to Chinese nation-state adversaries,
Unit 42 believes with high confidence that PKPLUG has similar origins.