Configuration steps
The malware next sets out to prevent the victim from stopping the ongoing infection. First, the machine is removed from the Active Directory domain by using WinAPI or WMI. This makes it harder to
remotely push any remediation tools to the infected machines. Next, the malware proceeds to corrupt the computer’s boot configuration: in versions of Windows prior to Windows 7, the malware
overrides the c:\boot. ini file; in Windows 7 and above, it deletes the BCD entries. Finally, the malware changes the password of the local users. In the files analyzed, all the passwords chosen by the actor
have the same pattern: Aa153![random sequence], for example Aa153!rHrrdOvpCj or Aa153!IRro3d2JYm .
When all the above is said and done, the user will not recover access to their machine easily. At this stage the malware disables the Windows screen saver, then changes both the desktop wallpaper and
the lock screen images to a custom image. These are the pair of identical JPEG and BMP images presenting the logo of Iran’s Railways and the message similar to the one displayed on the platform
boards of different railway stations in Iran:
“Long delays due to cyber attacks. More information: 64411” message on the desktop wallpaper set up by the malware
Something about this “long delays due to cyber attacks” message just tickles our fancy, and betrays a somewhat surrealistic sense of humor on the attackers’ part. They could have written anything, but
they chose that.
https://research.checkpoint.com/2021/indra-hackers-behind-recent-attacks-on-iran/ 6/27
8/16/2021 Indra — Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran - Check Point Research
With the above done, the malware logs off all users and executes a small program — a “locker” — in a new thread. The path to the locker file named mssetup.exe is retrieved from the configuration.
mssetup.exe will prevent the user from interacting with the machine by blocking inputs from the keyboard and mouse devices. Finally, before moving to its main cause — wiping the system — the
malware creates a scheduled task that assures its own persistence in the system. The scheduled task will be executed every time the system starts.
As an aside, there is an extra step that didn’t take place in this specific attack; the malware is supposed to terminate all processes named in a processes_to_kill list specified in the configuration file.
As it happens, the configurations used in the attacks against the Iranian targets did not contain this list, and so no processes were terminated. We will later show configuration files from previous attacks
that did indeed use this feature.