Shrouded Crossbow
The Shrouded Crossbow group has been active since 2010, typically targeting companies
that are close to governments and key industries in Asia. Common targets include government
contractors, privatized government agencies, companies involved with consumer electronics,
the computer industry, the healthcare sector, and financial industries. The malicious team is
predicted to be about ten people, equipped with significant resources. Rather than develop its
own attack kits and malware, the group uses its significant resources to purchase source code
64
and tools from other authors. Afterward, members of the group improve the code to suit their
specifications.
The group employs the BIFROSE/ Bifrost, KIVARS, and XBOW backdoors in their attacks.
As an indicator of resources available to the group, Trend Micro notes that BIFROSE has sold
for more than $10,000 on underground sites. BIFROSE has been around for about a decade
and has been used in spam campaigns against NATO and United States government agencies.
BIFROSE is a remote access Trojan (RAT) which establishes a persistent presence and then
deploys tools to capture keystrokes, screenshots, and confidential information. Trend Micro
actually believes that the group purchased the source code of BIFROSE, and then developed a
new installer, created unique loader-backdoor pairs, and simplified the backdoor capabilities,
thereby resulting in KIVARS. KIVARS is also available as a 64-bit variant. The group developed
XBOW on their own, based on BIFROSE and KIVARS. The malware is delivered via spear
phishing emails containing malicious .RAR files or .EXE. The email topics are generally breaking
news, resumes, government data, or meeting requests. The malware corresponds to a C&C
network of about 100 servers registered to free dynamic DNS or discrete IP addresses. The
C&C servers appear to be organized according to the actor’s use. IP address changes and
renewal of domains happen according to an organized schedule. Trend Micro suspects that in
addition to the 10-member development team, the malware group may employ separate
teams to design and deploy the malicious emails and to maintain the C&C infrastructure.