DETECTING TERRACOTTA MALWARE USING RSA SECURITY ANALYTICS AND ECAT
“An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” Certainly this idiom from Ben Franklin applies to efforts to defend against
this class of threats (not particularly sophisticated, opportunistic, but potentially very costly). RSA Research assesses that had
the Windows firewall been turned on, and the default “Administrator” account been renamed in each of the victim systems
examined, the systems would not have been compromised with the methods employed by Terracotta. Still, in both large and
small organizations, a dichotomy may manifest between a “Security 101” policy and application of that policy, especially in
development and cloud environments.
Note: This is not intended to be a cyber-hunter’s cookbook for finding Terracotta activity with RSA Security Analytics and ECAT,
but rather to offer takeaways on the indicators quickly identified by these tools. The “out of the box” Gh0st protocol parser from
RSA Live detects the “cb1st” Gh0st protocol string used by both the GDS520 and MM523Gh0st RAT variants, highlighted in red
in Figure 17. Security Analytics shows an actual victim system in Iran that was infected with the now-neutralized MM523 Gh0st
RAT variant calling-back to a RSA Research sinkhole.
Figure 17. Gh0st protocol employed by MM523 Gh0st RAT detected by RSA Security Analytics
25
RSA ECAT will readily detect both Gh0st RAT variants employed by the Terracotta actors. In Figure 18, RSA ECAT has raised the
Threat Level scores from low single-digit numbers to well above 100 when the GDS520 Gh0st RAT was installed.
Figure 18. Raised threat level scores indicate malware infection on server and workstation
Double clicking on the workstation in the RSA ECAT console will bring up details about the system, where an analyst can drilldown into the network connections, and responsible processes. In Figure 19, a Security Operations Center (SOC) analyst would
be alerted by (illustrated in red boxes) the high score, the Suspicious Threads, and then hone in on the Gh0st C2 connections
identified by RSA ECAT.
Figure 19. Suspicious network connections to the Gh0st C2 Domain as seen in RSA ECAT console
26
Figure 20. RSA ECAT uses IIOCs to identify floating code employed by Gh0st RAT malware
In our Gh0st RAT malware scenario, the SOC analyst would be able to identify the infections of a server and workstation in RSA
Security Analytics. The red boxes in Figure 20 illustrate Gh0st RAT protocol detection and botnet threat categorization by RSA
Security Analytics. An analyst also might notice the unusual communications port.
27
Figure 21. RSA Security Analytics alerts on system infected with Gh0st RAT as it calls back to C2 IP
address on port 8086
28
While the particular variant of the Mitozhan Trojan described in this paper’s malware analysis section has been neutralized by
RSA Research with the seizure of its C2 domain; it is likely that other variants with different C2 domains persist. RSA developed
a Lua parser to detect Mitozhan Command and Control (C2) activity, now available through RSA Live and included as an
appendix. Figure 22 is a redacted screenshot showing the Mitozhan Lua parser in action as it alerts on Mitozhan C2 activity on a
RSA Research sinkhole.
Figure 22. LUA Parser used to detect the Mitozhan C2 Activity in RSA Security Analytics
29
Mitozhan Trojan is also readily detected upon initial scan with RSA ECAT. Figure 23 shows the initial RSA ECAT console display
for the infected system, with initial indicators marked in red boxes .
Figure 23. RSA ECAT console shows infection with Mitozhan. Note the high threat score, file name with
random letters, and the unsigned executable with Chinese name
While RSA ECAT can detect a never-before-seen malware infection out-of-the-box without signatures, a well-prepared SOC will
have signatures to help identify the threats behind the malware. That is where the built-in Yara features of RSA ECAT really
shine. Yara is an open source tool that helps threat intelligence analysts and malware researchers classify and identify malware
with granularity that no antivirus product can match. Using the Yara signature included in the Appendix, our example SOC
analyst homes in on a suspicious rasauto.dll process identified by RSA ECAT as unsigned in Figure 24. By right-clicking on the
suspicious process, the analyst can initiate a Yara scan using pre-configured rules
Figure 24. ECAT’s YARA integration allows the SOC analyst or incident responder to quickly identify
malware that may be associated with a specific threat
30
In this scenario, the SOC analyst has used ECAT to scan the suspicious process. As illustrated with the red box on the right of
Figure 25, the Yara result is a confirmed infection with Liudoor. The Liudoor YARA signature is included in the Appendix
Figure 25. RSA ECAT indicates the YARA scan results. Backdoor Liudoor found!
For more technical details on how RSA ECAT can be used to proactively detect malware not discovered by traditional methods
including antivirus, refer to the whitepaper RSA Incident Response: An APT Case Study.
https://blogs.rsa.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/RSA-IR-Case-Study.pdf
Terracotta Indicators for Security Analytics have been loaded into the following feeds in RSA Live:
RSA 
 Firstwatch 
 APT 
 Threat 
 Domains
RSA 
 Firstwatch 
 Command 
 and 
 Control 
 Domains
RSA 
 Firstwatch 
 Criminal 
 VPN 
 Exit 
 IPs
RSA 
 Firstwatch 
 Insider 
 Threat 
 Domains
31