2.5. Logging functions
We’ve identified a characteristic logging function that is present in both Duqu and Duqu 2.0,
and is used extensively in the networking (mainly HTTP handling) part of the code. The logging
function itself is identical, and the data structure used for storing log entries is very similar.
The Duqu version of the data structure has embedded function pointers, while the Duqu 2.0
version uses a virtual function table like structure. The main difference from a C++ virtual
function table is that the pointer to the table is the last field of the associated structure
instead of the first field (see Figure 6).
In general, change in the coding style can be seen all over the code. While Duqu uses object
oriented style that is similar, but not identical to what C++ compilers do, Duqu 2.0 moved
mainly to “real” C++, but there are still deviations from the standard C++ style (like the
previously function table).
Figure 6 – Log entry structure and the associated virtual function table in Duqu and Duqu 2.0
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 26
Both the Duqu and Duqu 2.0 avoids storing the messages logged through this function. In both
codebase, a “handle_log_entry” function is called after creating the log entry structure, but
this function throws the object away (frees the memory) and does not print or save it. The
authors probably used C/C++ macros to avoid detailed logging in release builds, but in this
case we still see the logging function invocation. In this case, the macro was probably placed
in the function that should have printed the log message (handle_log_entry), and since this is
a virtual function, the compiler could not optimize out the function invocations directly.
The logging function is called equal times in the Duqu and the Duqu 2.0 samples, and the
invocation is always very similar (see Figure 7). The arguments are usually not strings
describing the event directly, but 4 byte magic numbers. The logging function is invoked equal
times, and the magic numbers are almost always identical in Duqu and Duqu 2.0.
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 27
Figure 7 – References to the logger function in Duqu and Duqu 2.0, and one of the invocations
Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS)
Budapest University of Technology and Economics
www.crysys.hu 28