Operation Blockbuster: Remote Administration Tools and Content Staging Malware Report 67
After the server transmits the known nodes entries, the server again attempts to connect back to the client and
authentication in order to determine if the client has a routable interface. If the server is successful in the connect back,
the node is added to the list of known nodes if it does not already exist or, if the client is already in the known nodes list,
its last contact time (field 16 of NodeInfo ) is updated to reflect the current time. The process of adding or updating the
client node’s entry is repeated for the seed nodes list.
The server shuts down the channel and disconnect from the socket before terminating the thread handling the client’s
connection. Visually, the crawler channel’s communication is illustrated by Figure 17-3. In the illustration the gray arrows
represent the client initiated socket and the direction of communication for each step while the red arrows represent the
server initiated connection back to the client during the routability test.
Client Node Server Node
Up to 3 Times
Figure 17-3: Crawler Channel Communication Sequence
17.1.2 RAT Channel
The RAT channel provides, as the name would imply, RAT capability to the SJM1 family. Unauthenticated outside of the
initial handshake between two nodes, the RAT channel support 21 different commands ranging from file management to
data exfiltration to process management to node management.
Once a client requests the RAT channel, the client must send a datagram specifying the command and arguments (if
any) for the command. Datagrams, in the context of SJM1, are variable sized data structures that specify a data type (or
command type) followed by optional unstructured data specific to the data type specified. The datagram structure (Table
17-3) dictates that at a minimum a datagram is 6 bytes in size on the network.
|OFFSET|SIZE|FIELD DESCRIPTION|
|---|---|---|
|0|4 Bytes (DWORD)|Size of the data transmission to follow|
|4|2 Bytes (WORD)|Data type|
|6|Variable|Optional payload data|
Table 17-3: SierraJuliett-MikeOne’s Datagram Structure