Industrial companies
© Positive Technologies
Social engineering 95%
Malware use 92%
Hacking 5%
Web attacks 5%
Other 3%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Figure 17. Industrial companies: attack methods used in Q3 2019
14
© Positive Technologies
Corporate secrets
Credentials
5% 3% 92%
Figure 18. Attack targets
Computers, servers,
and network equipment
Humans
Web resources
25% 75%
Figure 19. Data stolen
In Q3, PT ESC experts detected attacks by the TA505 APT group on American companies in the
food industry, pharmaceutical companies, and medical equipment suppliers. The group also attacked
industrial and energy-related companies in South Korea and Taiwan, as well as high-tech engineering
companies in a number of European countries. The attackers sent phishing emails with Office documents
that infected victim computers with FlawedAmmyy remote administration malware. In addition, in July
our experts detected mailings to industrial companies in South Korea in which victims were infected
with the ServHelper trojan. The malware was disguised by the attackers as ISO files. The PT ESC has
identified two modifications of ServHelper: one can be used as a RAT, while the other acts as loader for
the legitimate remote control software NetSupport Manager.
Figure 20. Phishing mesage sent by TA505 to a Korean industrial company
In August, reports appeared of an attack with LokiBot spyware on an American industrial company. The
malware was delivered to the company's infrastructure in an email message supposedly from a partner
company.
Restoring infrastructure at an industrial company after a targeted attack can take large investments of
time and money. At the end of the quarter, major German military equipment manufacturer Rheinmetall
announced that it had been hit by a cyberattack. This led to interruptions in business processes at the
company's facilities in Brazil, Mexico, and the U.S. Downtime-related losses cost the company millions
of euros per week. Rheinmetall estimated that restoring operations would take from two to four weeks.
15
In August, reports appeared of an attack with LokiBot spyware on an American industrial company. The
malware was delivered to the company's infrastructure in an email message supposedly from a partner
company.
Restoring infrastructure at an industrial company after a targeted attack can take large investments of
time and money. At the end of the quarter, major German military equipment manufacturer Rheinmetall
announced that it had been hit by a cyberattack. This led to interruptions in business processes at the
company's facilities in Brazil, Mexico, and the U.S. Downtime-related losses cost the company millions
of euros per week. Rheinmetall estimated that restoring operations would take from two to four weeks.