Conclusion
In this blog, we have described an ongoing global attack against telecommunications providers
that has been active since at least 2017. The threat actor managed to infiltrate into the deepest
segments of the providers’ network, including some isolated from the internet, as well as
compromise critical assets. Our investigation showed that these attacks were targeted, and that
the threat actor sought to steal communications data of specific individuals in various countries.
Throughout this investigation, we have uncovered the infrastructure that facilitated the malicious
operations taken by this threat actor. The data exfiltrated by this threat actor, in conjunction with
the TTPs and tools used, allowed us to determine with a very high probability that the threat
actor behind these malicious operations is backed by a nation state, and is affiliated with China.
Our contextualized interpretation of the data suggests that the threat actor is likely APT10, or at
the very least, a threat actor that shares, or wishes to emulate its methods by using the same
tools, techniques, and motives.
It’s important to keep in mind that even though the attacks targeted specific individuals, any entity
that possesses the power to take over the networks of telecommunications providers can
potentially leverage its unlawful access and control of the network to shut down or disrupt an
entire cellular network as part of a larger cyber warfare operation.
Due to multiple and various limitations, we cannot disclose all the information we have gathered
on the attack in this report. Our team will continue to monitor and track the threat actor’s activity in
order to identify more tools and compromised organizations.
Ask the researchers questions about this attack during their live webinar.
Sign up for the Operation Soft Cell webinar.
Closing Notes: This research, which is still ongoing, has been a huge effort for the entire
Cybereason Nocturnus team. Special thanks goes to Niv Yona, Noa Pinkas, Josh Trombley,
Jakes Jansen, and every single member of the Nocturnus team for the countless hours and
effort that were put into this research. We will continue to monitor and update our blog with more
information once available and as our investigation progresses.
https://www.cybereason.com/blog/operation-soft-cell-a-worldwide-campaign-against-telecommunications-providers 21/21