The art and science of detecting Cobalt Strike
had some prior coverage alerting on the payloads, including
these Snort rules:
• 1:15306:22
• 1:11192:20
• 1:30471:3
• 1:30229:3
The first two are generic file type detection rules that are
the base for setting flowbits in Snort and can be ignored.
However, SIDs 1:30471 and 1:30229 are Metasploit
shellcode rules we released years ago that still apply here.
At the time, these rules were suspected to be false positive
prone and were not enabled by default in policy. We can’t
narrow them down to a specific type or protocol. Therefore,
we have to remove a lot of checks that tell Snort whether or
not to inspect a packet further and re-enabled them.
The key element here is the Snort header, alert tcp any
any -> any any. Most Snort rules will declare a traffic
direction (coming from or going to the user’s network)
and the applicable port ranges. Since this raw shellcode
can be used with potentially any exploit over an unknown
protocol or port, we can’t narrow it down to inspection on
for example just port 80. We also don’t know if a host is
compromised already and attempting to move laterally, so
we can’t specify the source and destination networks. This
means that Snort will attempt to match this particular byte
sequence on all TCP traffic crossing the sensor. Not only
is this undesirable for performance reasons, it heightens
the potential for false positives. We need to be a little more
cautious when releasing a catch-all rule such as this.
The following Snort rule also helped in detecting reverse
shell sessions from metasploit
• [1:30480:3] INDICATOR-SHELLCODE Metasploit pay
load windows_x64_meterpreter_reverse_https
After analyzing the preexisting Snort rules, the only thing
left to cover is the outbound HTTP request and the binary
blob Cobalt Strike retrieves from the C2 server. Typically,
covering the initial outbound HTTP GET would be ideal
since we want to identify potential C2 traffic as fast as
possible and flag the host as compromised in Cisco
Firepower NGFW. However, the URI code we used in our
research could be anything and was always random in
samples. The HTTP Header fields were also unhelpful, since
there wasn’t anything unique enough to distinguish the
request apart from benign traffic. This leaves us with only
the HTTP response containing the binary blob.
The shellcode started similarly to the raw payload with a
cld instruction followed by a short function designed to
decrypt the rest of the payload with an operator configured
XOR key.
Since we don’t want to target encrypted data with our
detection, we used the start of the shellcode as the
detection target. This resulted in two new rules, both
looking for the same thing across different listeners.
• [1:53757:1] MALWARE-OTHER CobaltStrike beacon.dll
download attempt
• [1:53758:1] MALWARE-OTHER CobaltStrike beacon.dll
download attempt
TARGET MODULE: STAGED/STAGELESS EXECUTABLE
GENERATOR
This module will encompass both staged and stageless
Cobalt Strike beacons. This is the core component
delivered to a victim host and establishes persistence, C2
communication, and any further execution on the host.
Beacons are extremely versatile and expose a huge number
of features for operators.
Staged vs. Stageless
Stageless payloads are delivered to the victim all at once.
Typically, a stageless payload already contains a large
variety of malicious functionality and will not require
additional resources to infect the victim.
Staged payloads are usually small, malicious payloads
that are used to load a larger, more robust payload. This
allows an attacker to transfer a small binary to a targeted
host and retrieve the desired payload afterward. Stagers
are designed to be as small as possible so that they can
be delivered using different techniques and leave less of a
footprint.
Having a smaller initial payload with less functionality
is more likely to evade AV detection by appearing to be
benign. A stager can then grab the larger payload for more
functionality and load it directly into memory.
Stagers allow adversaries to embed your payloads in
different methods. An adversary could take staged code and
send it in an exploit with resource limitations on the target.
© 2020 Cisco. All rights reserved. talos-external@cisco.com | talosintelligence.com page 8 of 29