Introduction
Executive Summary
During 2017-2019, Clearsky had published several reports about the Iranian APT group “Charming
Kitten”. One of the group’s most common attack vectors is impersonating journalists, particularly
those from the German “Deutsche Welle” broadcasting company and the “Jewish Journal” magazine [1] .
Starting July 2020, we have identified a new TTP of the group, impersonating “Deutsche Welle” and the
“Jewish Journal" using emails alongside WhatsApp messages as their main platform to approach the
target and convince them to open a malicious link. To gain the victim's trust and ensure the opening
of the link, the attackers use fake LinkedIn profiles as well. This is the first time we identified an attack
by Charming Kitten conducted through WhatsApp and LinkedIn, including attempts to conduct phone
calls between the victim and the Iranian hackers . Charming Kitten chooses to impersonate Persian
speaking journalists, to neutralize detection through accent while having the phone call . In this report,
we expose for the first time the full conversation between Charming Kitten to a victim, conducted on
WhatsApp.
The malicious link is embedded in a legitimate, compromised "Deutsche Welle” domain. Each victim
receives a personalized link, tailored to their specific email account. We identified an attempt to send
a malicious ZIP file to the victim as well, additional to a message that was sent to the victim via a fake
LinkedIn profile. We assess that in some cases, Charming Kitten would try to infect the victim with
malware instead of stealing its credentials.
“Charming Kitten”, also known as APT35 or “Ajax”, is an Iranian cyberespionage group active since

Their primary targets are Iranian academia experts, human rights' activists, and journalists. In the

past few months, it seems that Charming Kitten has expanded their target’s list, adding the Baha’i
community [2], high-ranking American civil servants and officials (including ambassadors and former
employees of the US State Department), and COVID-19 related organizations (such as Gilead [3] and
WHO [4] ). In the current campaign, we identified attempts to attack Israeli scholars (targeting their
institutional email account), and US government employees.
Here is a timeline of their operations involving “Deutsche Welle” and “Jewish Journal” in the past 3
years:
1 clearskysec.com/charmingkitten/
2 docs.google.com/document/d/1oYX3uN6KxIX_StzTH0s0yFNNoHDnV8VgmVqU5WoeErc/edit#heading=h.1mxv
ns31ypem
3 reuters.com/article/us-healthcare-coronavirus-gilead-iran-ex/exclusive-iran-linked-hackers-recently-targetedcoronavirus-drugmaker-gilead-sources-idUSKBN22K2EV
4 bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-05-07/hackers-target-who-by-posing-as-think-tank-broadcaster

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
3 | P a g e
Clearsky alerted “Deutsche Welle” about the impersonation and the watering hole in their website. A
“Deutsche Welle” representative confirmed that the reporter which Charming Kitten impersonated, did
not send any emails to the victim nor any other academic researcher in Israel in the past few weeks.
Note that part of "Deutsche Welle" reporters are originally from Iran – a fact that helps Charming Kitten
to hide the accent of their operators during a phone call.
It should be noted that this attack vector is unique to Charming Kitten, but it has not the only attack
vector that has been used in recent months by this threat actor. More information about recent
campaigns by the group can be found in our raw threat intelligence [5] or on our blog [6] .
Deployment Vector: WhatsApp and LinkedIn
In recent months, we identify an increase in the use of WhatsApp and LinkedIn as platforms of
communication between threat actors and victims. In the last three years, Charming Kitten has been
operating their campaigns mainly by emails and SMS. These two platforms enable the attacker to
reach the victim easily, spending minimum time in creating the fictitious social media profile. However,
in this campaign Charming Kitten has used a reliable, well-developed LinkedIn account to support
their email spear-phishing attacks.
In this campaign, we observed a willingness of the attackers to speak on the phone directly with the
victim, using WhatsApp calls, and a legitimate German phone number. This TTP is uncommon and
jeopardizes the fake identity of the attackers (unlike emails for example). However, if the attackers have
5 docs.google.com/document/d/1oYX3uN6KxIX_StzTH0s0yFNNoHDnV8VgmVqU5WoeErc/
6 clearskysec.com/the-kittens-are-back-in-town-2/

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
4 | P a g e
successfully passed the phone call obstacle, they can gain more trust from the victim, compared to an
email message.
Charming Kitten is not the first threat actor who uses WhatsApp phone call in recent months. In
Operation ‘Dream Job’, which we exposed in August 2020 [7], the Lazarus group (North Korea) used the
same method to gain the victim's trust.
7 clearskysec.com/operation-dream-job/

www.clearskysec.com © All rights reserved to ClearSky Cyber Security ltd. 2020
TLP: White – Information is provided to the recipient only, and may not be distributed outside the initial exchange
5 | P a g e