Packer
All samples are packed with a previously unknown packer that transforms custom PE sample into
base-independent code. This way, the packer allows to compile new components of this APT as
ordinary PE files and, after unpacking, they can use them as a base-independent code.
That helps to embed them into other samples, among other advantages, such as easy process
injection or infecting system libraries. Other typical advantages such as smaller code and hiding
functionality are also provided.
After packing the resulting structure is as follows:

Header, 0x400 bytes long
Unpacker stub
Data for unpacking

The header, initial base-independent code and all data that is necessary for unpacking are shown
below:
Some of the reserved parameters will be used internally by the unpacker, others are there for future
improvements. In later versions of this packer, module and section names are encrypted by a simple
XOR-based algorithm.
The value at offset 0x198 contains the virtual address of a first section descriptor. Each section is
represented in this structure with six fields: section RVA, characteristics, real size, packed size. If real
size is not equal to packed size if means that this section is encrypted. The last two fields are
reserved. After the descriptor, there is a data section, followed by more descriptors with the same
structure.
The packing algorithm is based on the Aplib compression library:

Packs each section with APlib compression
Replaces the original PE header with a new one generated by the packer
Adds a stub with the decrypt routine

Base-independent code decrypt routine works as follows:

Obtains the addresses of GetProcAddress & LoadLibrary functions
Allocates memory for the original unpacked PE-file
Unpacks all sections and writes them in the allocated memory
Sets rights for each section by calling VirtualProtect
Restores the original import table
Fixes relocations; works with exceptions: for x64 images adds exception handlers

(RtlAddFunctionTable), for x32 patches ntdll!RtlIsValidHandler so it always returns true
7. Wipes all headers and returns execution to the original entry point