USE OF ZERO-DAY EXPLOIT
After decryption, the exploit payload is loaded and triggered to allow for follow-on code
execution. Although the document is a Microsoft Office document, the code is executing
within an Adobe Flash container.
You might ask, why conduct Flash exploitation within Microsoft Office? Over the past
several years, many browsers have hardened their attack surface in regard to external
plugins and applications, including Adobe Flash. An example of this hardening can be seen
with Google’s Chrome Browser v.55, which outright blocks Flash by default. On the other
hand, Office still supports embedded ActiveX controls, including Flash. According to
Microsoft, this will be changing with its Office 365 products in 2019.
The use of a zero-day, rather than an “N-day”, vulnerability is particularly interesting in the
context of the attack chain. A zero-day vulnerability is a vulnerability for which there exists
no patch, whereas an “N-Day” vulnerability is an attack that takes place “N” days after the
patch is available. There are numerous benefits of leveraging a zero-day exploit against a
target (Figure 5) .
Code execution with minimal interaction: The vulnerabilities used in zero-day exploits
typically trigger with little or no user interaction other than opening the document.
Due to patches and other protective mechanism, N-day exploits will frequently cause
a prompt, warning, popup or flat out will not work.
Higher success rates with less risk of discovery: Due to the minimally required user
interaction, users do not get suspicious of the document as easily and therefore do
not report the situation to internal security teams. Most user training focuses on
informing users of all the built-in security prompts rather than analyzing the overall
suspicion of a scenario.
Figure 5: Benef i ts of using a zero-day exploit
On the other hand, there are some negative aspects to using a zero-day vulnerability,
notably cost of operations and risk of additional investigation upon discovery. In 2015, leaks
of conversations involving Hacking Team revealed that zero-day exploits for Adobe Flash
were being sold for $30k-$45k per exploit. Additionally, when the discovery of a zero-day
happens, investigators will tend to dive deeper than if they discovered use of an older N
day exploit.