A Packed ELF
1/17
During the analysis we noticed that this ELF was very far from being readable, we
extracted a series of elements confirming us that:
High file dimension (more than 4MB);
Obfuscated strings;
Absence of Dynamic and ( .dynsym ) and Static Symbol Tables (. symtab );
Absence of section-headers as Anti-reverse engineering Technique;
High value of entropy > 7.9
Runtime linking mechanism with dlopen and dlsym
As the first step, we focused on the static analysis of the sample in order to reconstruct the
high level of sophistication and complexity of the packing. At first impact, strings are
obfuscated, the binary is dynamically linked but the dynamic symbols table is empty.
Also, the absence of section-headers is an anti-reverse engineering technique adopted in
this packer. Another indicator that the binary is packed is the high value of entropy 7.99,
as it is possible to observe in the following picture, on the right we have the whole portion
of the ELF binary with compressed data.
Figure. High entropy section
At this point, we aren’t able to retrieve any other information about the packer, so we have
to analyze the malicious routines aimed at unpack the sample. During the code
inspection, a very long and complex subroutine emerges and it looks like the following
screen:
2/17
Figure. Part of the decoding routines
It is a particular decoding routine instructed to decrypt some other protected code and
strings. The code is a complex succession of logic instructions, like xor, shift, or etc. In the
end of the decoding routine, the sample performs a check on the environment variables,
looking for a custom one installed by the TH-239 operators.
In fact, the environment variable “MCARCH_” contains the decryption key of the
protector wrapper. When the malware retrieves the desidered environment variable, it
starts the unpacking routine using the key stored in it and then starts the execution of the
real payload.
This approach is a great evasion technique because it avoids the execution of the sample
in any environments except the ones where TH-239 operators decide to get in.
Figure. Environment variable lookup
3/17
Figure. Environment variable match (redacted)