03 DOWNLOADER ANALYSIS
The artifact found and extracted from the zip is a Windows x32 executable, named
“ поздравление.scr ” and compiled in date Mon Dec 20 09:16:02 2021 . From the recent
compilation date, it seems to have been developed specifically for the attack under analysis, and
it can be identified by the following hash:
2022 // © Cluster25 5
TLP:WHITE
Unrestricted // freely shareable content
The sample has the behavior of a trojan malware, and it is intended to resemble the legitimate
scrnsave.scr Windows application. When executed, it drops under the %TEMP% directory an
image named Happy.jpg (which is embedded in the resource section) and opens it as a
foreground window to trick the victim into believing that it is a legitimate Russian themed happy
holidays screensaver.
Subsequently, in the background, the malware starts its malicious activities by downloading the
next stage payload from an HTTP GET request to the Command-and-Control domain
i758769.atwebpages.com, passing as parameters the hardcoded user id numbered as 18756
and a type used as a flag to specify if the infected machine was 32 or 64 bit. The Command-and
Control Apache webserver response was configured to respond with HTTP status code 401,
having the attacker set a fake .htaccess (likely to ensure it went unnoticed at security checks),
returning as a response, in any case, a compressed CAB file encoded in base64 visible in the
evidence below.
2022 // © Cluster25 6
TLP:WHITE
Unrestricted // freely shareable content
After the CAB downloading, the malware starts the file decompression using expand.exe process
logging a file named - a.log - when the decompression is finished. The following image illustrates
the snipped of code described.
2022 // © Cluster25 7
TLP:WHITE
Unrestricted // freely shareable content
To optimize the time wasted during CAB decompression, the malware writes and executes the
following BAT file into the %TEMP% directory, which was contained in the data section encoded
in base64 :
The script’s scope is to wait for the decompression to finish by using the creation of a.log file as
flag and automatically execute the content of the CAB extraction, which is the install.bat file (one
of the files contained into the CAB), and finally delete itself using "%~DPNX0”, a bat script
convention used to specify the BAT file itself. As previously described the CAB file’s
decompressed content contains the following files:


Install.bat


scrnsvc.ini


scrnsvc.dll


Install.bat file is the launcher of the next stage infection, which hides the tracks of the previous
activities by moving all the files into the System32 directory and installing and starting the final
2022 // © Cluster25 8
TLP:WHITE
Unrestricted // freely shareable content
implant scrnsvc.dll as a Windows service named ScreenSaver Management Service, which,
when registered, loads the configuration file scrnvsvc.ini. The Windows service is installed by
configuring svchost.exe as a process container of the DLL executable representing Konni RAT
malware. Install.bat has already been seen among the TTPs belonging to this threat actor, which
content is visible below, where, in this case, it appears to have been slightly modified, and therefore
more likely to deceive detection signatures referring to files used in previous intrusions.
2022 // © Cluster25 9
TLP:WHITE
Unrestricted // freely shareable content