Key Findings
The Buckeye attack group was using Equation Group tools to gain persistent access to target
organizations at least a year prior to the Shadow Brokers leak.
Variants of Equation Group tools used by Buckeye appear to be different from those released by
Shadow Brokers, potentially indicating a different origin.
Buckeye's use of Equation Group tools also involved the exploit of a previously unknown Windows
zero-day vulnerability. This zero day was reported by Symantec to Microsoft in September 2018 and
patched in March 2019.
While Buckeye appeared to cease operations in mid-2017, the Equation Group tools it used
continued to be used in attacks until late 2018. It is unknown who continued to use the tools. They
may have been passed to another group or Buckeye may have continued operating longer than
supposed.
The 2017 leak of Equation Group tools by a mysterious group calling itself the Shadow Brokers was one of
the most significant cyber security stories in recent years. Equation is regarded as one of the most
technically adept espionage groups and the release of a trove of its tools had a major impact, with many
attackers rushing to deploy the malware and exploits disclosed. One of these tools, the EternalBlue exploit,
was used to devastating effect in the May 2017 WannaCry ransomware outbreak.
However, Symantec has now found evidence that the Buckeye cyber espionage group (aka APT3, Gothic
Panda) began using Equation Group tools in attacks at least a year prior to the Shadow Brokers leak.
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/buckeye-windows-zero-day-exploit 1/8
5/7/2019 Buckeye: Espionage Outfit Used Equation Group Tools Prior to Shadow Brokers Leak | Symantec Blogs
Beginning in March 2016, Buckeye began using a variant of DoublePulsar (Backdoor.Doublepulsar), a
backdoor that was subsequently released by the Shadow Brokers in 2017. DoublePulsar was delivered to
victims using a custom exploit tool (Trojan.Bemstour) that was specifically designed to install DoublePulsar.
Bemstour exploits two Windows vulnerabilities in order to achieve remote kernel code execution on
targeted computers. One vulnerability is a Windows zero-day vulnerability (CVE-2019-0703) discovered by
Symantec. The second Windows vulnerability (CVE-2017-0143) was patched in March 2017 after it was
discovered to have been used by two exploit tools—EternalRomance and EternalSynergy—that were also
released as part of the Shadow Brokers leak.
The zero-day vulnerability allows for the leaking of information and can be exploited in conjunction with
other vulnerabilities to attain remote kernel code execution. It was reported by Symantec to Microsoft in
September 2018 and was patched on March 12, 2019.
How Buckeye obtained Equation Group tools at least a year prior to the Shadow Brokers leak remains
unknown.
Buckeye disappeared in mid-2017 and three alleged members of the group were indicted in the U.S. in
November 2017. However, while activity involving known Buckeye tools ceased in mid-2017, the Bemstour
exploit tool and the DoublePulsar variant used by Buckeye continued to be used until at least September
2018 in conjunction with different malware.
https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/buckeye-windows-zero-day-exploit 2/8
5/7/2019 Buckeye: Espionage Outfit Used Equation Group Tools Prior to Shadow Brokers Leak | Symantec Blogs