EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
JAKU is the name given to the investigation, surveillance
and analysis, by the Forcepoint Special Investigations
team, of an on-going botnet campaign.
Organised crime has been operating botnets for several
years and the term itself has been in common parlance for
over a decade. While JAKU may not answer all the
questions regarding botnets, it does offer some insight and
understanding into the inner workings of a botnet. JAKU
also sheds some light onto the victims of botnets, why
they are vulnerable, and possibly, why they are targeted.
What JAKU demonstrates is the re-use of Infrastructure,
Tools, Techniques and Processes (TTPs), as well as the
herding of victims into separate groupings; some
indiscriminate and others highly targeted. Both the herding
of general botnet victims and highly targeted attacks on
individuals and organisations is hardly surprising. What is
somewhat of a step change, however, is the execution of
a number of concurrent operations within a campaign,
using almost identical TTPs, to both herd thousands of
victims into becoming botnet members while at the same
time executing a targeted operation on a very small
number of individuals.
Within the noise of thousands of seemingly
indiscriminate botnet victims, the JAKU
campaign performs a separate, highly
targeted operation.
Forcepoint Security Labs has identified the
precision targeting and tracking of a small
number of individuals of various
nationalities. These individuals include
members of International Non-
Governmental Organisations (NGOs),
Engineering Companies, Academics,
Scientists and Government Employees.
North Korea (DPRK) and Pyongyang are
the common theme shared between these
individuals.
Because of the sensitivity of this part of the
investigation, only the technical details of
the ‘RED-RACOON’ operation are
contained within this report and Law
Enforcement and Government Agencies
have been informed.
This paper examines how the JAKU botnets are constructed and identifies their characteristics, and in the
case of the targeted attacks, how they differ from the scattergun attacks of broader botnet activities. This
study also highlights the consequences that Internet users who disregard copyrights and digital rights may
face. Many may incur end-point security vulnerabilities that may not only leave them subject to attack, but
also may allow their machines to be misused by adversaries, such as the JAKU botnet controllers, to
execute information and identity theft.
Botnets are an easy form of resilient, redundant and highly pervasive attack infrastructures that are
repeatedly deployed by major threat actors, such as organised crime-sponsored attackers and rogue states
via their agencies. This resilience is strengthened by what appears to be the herding of victims into smaller
bot-networks. This, to some degree at least, ensures that if the botnet is compromised then the remainder
of the campaign is left to operate.
Finding, tracking and shutting down attack modes and methodologies with such capabilities can be a
formidable task. No single organisation can do it alone. It requires the close collaboration and intelligencesharing activities of both private organisations and government agencies.
Fortunately, even before the inception of this investigation in October of 2015, Forcepoint customers
enjoyed protection from the threats presented by the malware discussed in this paper by TRITON® ACE .
TLP-WHITE |  4