Sharing groups and communities
In addition to sharing detected attacks based on SIGMA
and YARA, Swisscom CSIRT and its staff are active members of many trust groups for operational cooperation
in the daily work of CSIRTs, SOCs and threat intelligence
teams. These trust groups are designed to bring together
people with similar problems in their everyday work
and to simplify the exchange between them. Swisscom
regularly provides these sharing groups and communities with information on current observations, risks and
indicators of malware and attacks.
Comprehensive corporate protection thanks to
early detection of and professional intervention in
cybersecurity attacks – available as a service
Today, vast volumes of corporate and personal infor­
mation are available on various data sources (networks,
applications, end devices, social media, the cloud, darknet, etc.). As networking and digitalisation continue
to grow, so has the complexity of the threats. Timely
detection of security-related incidents is essential.
Professional threat detection & response requires
specific processes, tools, many years’ experience and
highly specialised employees. It is therefore almost
impossible for individual companies to understand the
constantly changing cybersecurity attacks and react
accordingly. Support is thus required from experienced
partners. Swisscom has been successfully protecting its
network infrastructure, customer and product data as
well as itself against cyber threats for years. It uses this
experience to minimise cyber risks in collaboration with
its customers. Good data visualisation facilitates the
early detection of potential security incidents. Timely
analysis and appropriate reaction to a security incident
improves the security level and the use of resources
within the company.
Our Threat Detection & Response service enables corporate customers to choose between four service variants
depending on how much cybersecurity support they
would like from Swisscom. Here is a short overview:
Security Analytics as a Service: A dashboard provides
the customer with an overview of potential security
incidents from defined log data of the company.
Security Operation Center (SOC) as a Service: In addition
to security analytics, customers receive analyses and
concrete recommendations for action as well as direct
access to specialists at Swisscom’s SOC. We have been
providing SOC services to Swiss companies both at home
and abroad for more than ten years. Our SOC analysts
can interpret security events and incidents competently
and quickly.
Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) as
a Service: Swisscom experts can be called on to analyse
and tackle critical security incidents and lead the security
incident management process. These experienced
experts help customers preserve evidence and communicate with their customers and partners.
Threat Intelligence as a Service: Customers are informed
proactively about the appearance of sensitive business
and personal information of their company in public and
closed networks (e.g. the darknet). [17]