Analysis
Cobalt Strike is an adversary simulation platform used by both red teams and
adversaries. The tool integrates with functionality from multiple offensive
security projects and can extend its functionality with aggressor scripts . In
2020 we observed adversaries using Cobalt Strike during targeted attacks to
steal payment card data, ransomware incidents to retain a foothold, red team
engagements, and even incidents involving malicious document droppers.
Adversaries can buy Cobalt Strike, and there are older, cracked versions of
Cobalt Strike freely available to adversaries online.
Cobalt Strike fills adversaries’ needs by providing a reliable post-exploitation
agent that works well and allows the adversaries to focus on other parts of the
attack lifecycle. It fills this need so well that multiple cybercrime enterprises
and advanced threats have used the tool as part of compromises involving
ransomware, data theft, and more. In incidents involving Bazar malware,
we observed adversaries deploying Cobalt Strike payloads prior to Ryuk
ransomware. In these cases, the adversaries often moved quickly, taking as little
as two hours to reach their objective. In other cases—such as 2020’s Solorigate
supply chain compromise —adversaries created custom shellcode loaders to
deploy Cobalt Strike payloads. Cobalt Strike is so common and reliable that
adversaries create their own custom tooling to simply deploy the payloads,
knowing that they will likely succeed if they can just get the payload past
security controls. This capability demonstrates how Cobalt Strike fits into the
threat model for nearly any organization.
Cobalt Strike can generate and execute payloads in the form of an EXE, DLL, or
shellcode; these payloads are what Cobalt Strike refers to as a Beacon . Beacons
allow adversaries to leverage multiple code delivery and execution methods
during attacks. Cobalt Strike beacons evade defenses using Process Injection
to execute malicious code within the memory space of native Windows binaries
such as the Windows DLL Host ~~rundll32.exe~~ ~~.~~ During lateral movement, Cobalt
Strike beacons may execute as Windows services spawning PowerShell code or
l [Cobalt Strike]
85
2021 Threat Detection Report
binaries that mirror the functions of PsExec . In addition, adversaries may pivot
between endpoints using WMI commands or SMB named pipe communication.
For privilege escalation, Cobalt Strike can use named pipe impersonation to
execute code as NT AUTHORITY \SYSTEM for unfettered access to an endpoint.