Conclusion
A coordinated spyware campaign targeted prominent HRDs, most of whom were vocal
against the arbitrary and prolonged imprisonment of the Bhima Koregaon 11. The
spearphishing emails and spyware suggest that this is not a cyber-crime attack, but a
spyware campaign trying to compromise devices of HRDs. If successful it would have
enabled the attackers, to monitor the HRDs actions and communications and is therefore
a violation of their rights to freedom of expression and privacy. This spyware campaign is
very concerning in the context of an already perilous situation for HRDs in India where
surveillance is used along with threats, imprisonment and smear campaigns against
activists to shrink the space for civil society.
Our investigation was not able to conclusively attribute the attack to a particular group
with high confidence. However, it is not the first time that activists and journalists in
India have been targeted using malware intended to put them under surveillance. Three
of the HRDs in this incident were targeted earlier in 2019 with NSO Group’s Pegasus
spyware, a commercial product only sold to government entities. This new campaign
confirms that there is a pattern of digital attacks against HRDs supporting the imprisoned
https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/research/2020/06/india-human-rights-defenders-targeted-by-a-coordinated-spyware-operation/ 6/16
6/16/2020 India: Human Rights Defenders Targeted by a Coordinated Spyware Operation | Amnesty International
Bhima Koregaon activists. This pattern underscores the necessity of India fulfilling its
obligation to provide a remedy for these abuses by conducting a full, independent and
impartial investigation into these attacks, including by determining whether there are
links between this spyware campaign and specific government agencies.
Targeting people solely for exercising their right to peaceful dissent amounts to an
arbitrary or unlawful attack on their privacy and violates their right to freedom of
expression. States have an obligation to protect human rights by ensuring that HRDs are
protected from unlawful surveillance.