TLP: WHITE 1 Distribution
Context Information Security distribute Context Threat Intelligence (CTI) reporting under
the Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) [[1]], a method of classifying a document in order to promote
the distribution of sensitive information between individuals, organisations or
communities in a controlled and trusted way, based on the originator’s wishes.
The various levels of the TLP are represented by the following colours:
RED - Personal; for named recipients only
Sources may use TLP: RED when information cannot be effectively acted upon by
additional parties, and could lead to impacts on a party's privacy, reputation, or
operations if misused.
Recipients may not share TLP: RED information with any parties outside of the specific
exchange, meeting, or conversation in which it is originally disclosed. TLP: RED
information will be passed verbally or in person.
AMBER - Limited Distribution
Sources may use TLP: AMBER when information requires support to be effectively acted
upon, but carries risks to privacy, reputation, or operations if shared outside of the
organisations involved.
Recipients may only share TLP: AMBER information with members of their own
organisation who need to know, and only as widely as necessary to act on that
information.
GREEN – Community Wide
Sources may use TLP: GREEN when information is useful for the awareness of all
participating organisations as well as with peers within the broader community or sector.
Recipients may share TLP: GREEN information with peers and partner organisations within
their sector or community, but not via publicly accessible channels such as publication
or posting publicly on the Internet. WHITEWHITE
- Unlimited Distribution
Sources may use TLP: WHITE when information carries minimal or no foreseeable risk of
misuse, in accordance with applicable rules and procedures for public release.
Subject to standard copyright rules, TLP: WHITE information may be distributed freely,
without restriction.
1 http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/25/10/40761118.pdf